risk factors - failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business." acquisition of covidien plc on january 26, 2015, pursuant to a transaction agreement, dated as of june 15, 2014 (the transaction agreement), medtronic, inc. and covidien became subsidiaries of the company. the total cash and stock value of the covidien acquisition was approximately $50 billion. the operating results for covidien are included in the minimally invasive therapies group, cardiac and vascular group and restorative therapies group segments. based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, the company acquired $18.3 billion of customer-related intangible assets, $7.1 billion of technology-based intangible assets, $0.5 billion of tradenames, with weighted average estimated useful lives of 18 , 16 , and 3 years , respectively, $0.4 billion of in-process research and development (ipr&amp;d), and $29.6 billion of goodwill. other fiscal year 2015 acquisitions sophono, inc. on march 26, 2015, the company acquired sophono, inc. (sophono), a privately-held developer and manufacturer of minimally invasive, transcutaneous bone conduction hearing implants. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $17 million , which included an upfront payment of $6 million and the estimated fair value of revenue-based contingent consideration of $11 million . based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, the company acquired $11 million of technology-based intangible assets with an estimated useful life of 13 years at the time of the acquisition, $2 million of ipr&amp;d, and $5 million of goodwill. diabeter on march 26, 2015, the company acquired diabeter, an innovative netherlands-based diabetes clinic and research center dedicated to providing comprehensive and individualized care for children and young adults with diabetes. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $10 million . based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, the company acquired $9 million of goodwill. ngc medical s.p.a. on august 26, 2014, the company acquired ngc medical s.p.a. (ngc), a privately-held italian company that offers a broad suite of hospital management services. total consideration for this transaction was approximately $340 million . medtronic had previously invested in ngc and held a 30 percent ownership position. net of this ownership position, the transaction value was approximately $238 million . based upon a preliminary valuation, the company acquired $159 million of customer-related intangible assets and tradenames with an estimated useful life of 20 years at the time of acquisition and $197 million of goodwill. sapiens steering brain stimulation on august 25, 2014, the company acquired sapiens steering brain stimulation (sapiens), a privately-held developer of deep brain stimulation technologies. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $203 million . based upon a preliminary valuation, the company acquired $30 million of ipr&amp;d and $170 million of goodwill. visualase, inc. on july 25, 2014, the company acquired visualase, inc. (visualase), a privately-held developer of minimally invasive mri guided laser ablation for surgical applications. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $97 million . based upon a preliminary valuation, the company acquired $66 million of technology-based intangible assets with an estimated useful life of 10 years at the time of acquisition and $43 million of goodwill. corventis, inc. on june 20, 2014, the company acquired corventis, inc. (corventis), a privately-held developer of wearable, wireless technologies for cardiac disease. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $131 million , including a $50 million payment to medtronic with respect to settlement of outstanding debt. based upon the acquisition valuation, the company acquired $80 million of technology-based intangible assets with an estimated useful life of 16 years at the time of acquisition and $48 million of goodwill. patents and licenses we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. we have filed and obtained numerous patents in the u.s. and abroad, and regularly file patent applications worldwide in our continuing effort to establish and protect our proprietary technology. 7 table of contents u.s. patents typically have a 20-year term from the application date while patent protection outside the u.s. varies from country to country. in addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses relating to a wide array of third-party technologies. we have also obtained certain trademarks and tradenames for our products to distinguish our genuine products from our competitors' products, and we maintain certain details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade secrets. in the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to any segment of our business as a whole. our efforts to protect our intellectual property and avoid disputes over proprietary rights have included ongoing review of third-party patents and patent applications. for additional information see item 1a. risk factors - we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. markets and distribution methods we sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the u.s. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the u.s. for certain portions of our business acquired through the covidien acquisition, we also sell through distributors in the u.s. our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, gpos and integrated delivery networks (idns) primarily through third-party distributors, although we also have direct sales representatives. we often negotiate with gpos and idns, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. our three largest markets are the u.s., western europe, and japan. emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity as we believe they remain under-penetrated. our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide - including physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions, and gpos. to achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. this focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. we believe that we maintain excellent working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic developments, trends, and emerging opportunities and respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and patients. we attempt to enhance our presence in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. we believe that these activities contribute to physician expertise. in keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. this enhanced purchasing power may lead to pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. our customer base continues to evolve to reflect such economic changes across the geographic markets we serve. we are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales. competition and industry we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. our product lines face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. in addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. in addition, in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products. 8 table of contents worldwide operations our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country; often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s. foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows from operations outside the u.s. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, the repatriation of earnings of certain subsidiaries outside the u.s. may result in substantial u.s. tax cost. for financial reporting purposes, net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. production and availability of raw materials we manufacture most of our products at 80 manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. the largest of these manufacturing facilities are located in ireland, the u.s. (in thirteen states), puerto rico, canada, costa rica, dominican republic, france, germany, israel, italy, japan, mexico, the people's republic of china, singapore, and switzerland. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. due to the u.s. fda's requirements regarding manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our operations. we have reporting and disclosure requirements related to the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. pursuant to these requirements, we are required to report on form sd the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. as of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2014 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. we may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. working capital practices our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to ensure adequate supply of raw materials from suppliers and meet the product delivery needs of our customers. we also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. employees on april 24, 2015 , we employed more than 92,000 employees (including full-time equivalent employees). our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment. seasonality worldwide sales, including u.s. sales, do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality; however, the number of medical procedures incorporating medtronic products is generally lower during summer months, due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in european countries. in addition, pulse oximetry sales can be impacted by flu season. government regulation and other considerations our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda and similar agencies outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. our business is also affected by u.s. and foreign 9 table of contents patient privacy laws, cost containment initiatives and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. the primary laws and regulations that affect our business are described below. the laws applicable to us are subject to change and are subject to evolving interpretations. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, medtronic and its officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by medicare or medicaid. product approval processes authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device or technology in the u.s. is generally received in one of two ways. the first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device or technology is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device or technology. in this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. if human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with u.s. fda investigational device exemption regulations. we must receive an order from the u.s. fda finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device or technology before we can commercially distribute the new medical device or technology. modifications to cleared medical devices or technologies can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. covidien products are generally subject to the pre-market notification process. a very small number of our devices are exempt from pre-market review. the second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (pma), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective. we do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. the u.s. fda will authorize commercial distribution if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective. this determination is based on the benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the device. this process is much more detailed, time-consuming, and expensive than the 510(k) process. a third, seldom used, process for approval exists for humanitarian use devices, intended for patient populations of less than 4,000 patients per year in the u.s. this exemption is similar to the pma process; however, a full showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. the threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety. many countries outside the u.s. to which we export medical devices also subject such medical devices and technologies to their own regulatory requirements. frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in the u.s. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as china for example, require approval in the country of origin first. most countries outside of the u.s. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. the recertification process requires that we evaluate any device or technology changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device or technology and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. because export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations are complex and constantly changing, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations may not be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our ability to sell or distribute products. in the european union (eu), a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the ce mark. to obtain a ce mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. a notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. medtronic is subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. the competent authorities of the eu countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. we are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws transcribing the medical device directives. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or shonin. the japanese government, through the ministry of health, labour, and welfare (mhlw), regulates medical devices under the pharmaceutical affairs law (pal). oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the pharmaceutical and medical devices agency (pmda), a quasi-government organization performing many of the review functions for mhlw. penalties for a company's noncompliance with pal could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. mhlw and pmda also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the requirements of the pal. medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies. our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for 10 table of contents medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on existing regulations. certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. while harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. we expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future. there can be no assurance that any new medical devices we develop will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all. ongoing u.s. fda regulations both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda regulations. the u.s. fda reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. we are also subject to periodic inspection by the u.s. fda for compliance with the u.s. fda's quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. in addition, the u.s. fda and other u.s. regulatory bodies (including the federal trade commission, the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, the department of justice (doj), and various state attorneys general) monitor the manner in which we promote and advertise our products. although surgeons are permitted to use their medical judgment to employ medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the u.s. fda, we are prohibited from promoting products for such off-label uses, and can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, or ban such medical devices. the u.s. fda may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, including a hold on approving new devices until issues are resolved to its satisfaction, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the doj. conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct. in april 2015 we entered into a consent decree with the fda relating to our neuromodulation business' synchromed drug infusion system and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree requires the company to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the synchromed pump and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree limits the company's ability to manufacture and distribute the synchromed drug infusion system, unless specific conditions are met. the agreement does not require the retrieval of any of the company's products, but the company must retain a third-party expert to inspect the neuromodulation quality system and to provide a certification that the system complies with the requirements of the consent decree. once this certification is provided to the fda's satisfaction, the limitations on manufacturer and distribution of synchromed pumps will be lifted. thereafter, the company must submit periodic audit reports to the fda to ensure ongoing compliance with the consent decree. governmental trade regulations the sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. a variety of laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the countries in which we transact business, apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across international borders. because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import and export activities. the u.s. fda, in cooperation with u.s. customs and border protection (cbp), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the u.s. the cbp imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. medtronic is also subject to foreign trade controls administered by several u.s. government agencies, including the bureau of industry and security within the commerce department and the office of foreign assets control within the treasury department. we import raw materials, components and finished products into the countries in which we transact business. we act as the import of record in many instances, but we also sell and ship goods to third parties who are themselves responsible for complying with applicable trade laws and regulations. in our role as importer of record, we are directly responsible for complying with customs laws and regulations concerning the importation of our raw materials, components and finished products. if applicable government agencies were to determine that we or such third parties were not in compliance with applicable u.s. fda or customs laws and regulations when engaging in cross-border transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, depending on the nature of the violation and 11 table of contents the extent of our culpability. in addition, such determinations may cause supply chain disruptions and delays in the distribution of our products that impact our business activities. many countries, including the u.s., control the export and re-export of goods, technology and services for reasons including public health, national security, regional stability, antiterrorism policies and other reasons. in certain circumstances, approval from governmental authorities may be required before goods, technology or services are exported or re-exported to certain destinations, to certain end-users and for certain end-uses. in addition, international sales of our medical devices that have not received u.s. fda approval are subject to u.s. fda export requirements. some governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. in addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct export activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. if applicable government agencies were to determine that we, or the third parties through which we export goods, were not in compliance with applicable export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations when engaging in transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. similarly, such determinations may cause disruption or delays in the distribution and sales of our products, or result in restrictions being placed upon our international distribution and sales of products which may materially impact our business activities. anti-boycott laws under u.s. laws and regulations, u.s. companies and their controlled-in-fact foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the u.s. or between the u.s. and a foreign country. currently, the u.s. considers the arab league boycott of israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott. we are responsible for ensuring we comply with the requirements of u.s. anti-boycott laws for all transactions in which we are involved. if we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, are determined to have violated u.s. anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. penalties for any violations of anti-boycott laws and regulations could include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, loss of export privileges and the denial of certain tax benefits, including foreign tax credits, and foreign subsidiary deferrals. patient privacy laws u.s. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. in particular, in april 2003, the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) published patient privacy rules under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa) and, in april 2005, published security rules for protected health information. the hipaa privacy and security rules govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by covered entities, which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses. in 2009, congress passed the hitech act, which modified certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rules for covered entities and their business associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the covered entity's workforce). these included directing hhs to publish more specific security standards, and increasing breach notification requirements, as well as tightening certain aspects of the privacy rules. hhs published the final versions of these new rules in january 2013, and covered entities and business associates were expected to be in compliance by september 2013. in addition, the hitech act provided that business associates will now be subject to the same security requirements as covered entities, and that with regard to both the security and privacy rule, business associates will be subject to direct enforcement by hhs, including civil and criminal liability, just as covered entities are. in the past, hipaa has generally affected us indirectly. medtronic is generally not a covered entity, except for a few units such as our diabetes business, medtronic monitoring, inc. and our health insurance plans. medtronic only operates as a business associate to covered entities in a limited number of instances. in those cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may include protected health information. we are committed to maintaining the security and privacy of patients' health information and believe that we meet the expectations of the hipaa rules. some modifications to our systems and policies may be necessary, but the framework is already in place. however, the potential for enforcement action against us is now greater, as hhs can take action directly against business associates. thus, while we believe we are and will be in substantial compliance with hipaa standards, there is no guarantee that the government will agree. enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. we believe the ongoing costs and impacts of assuring compliance with the hipaa privacy and security rules are not material to our business. in addition, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies. while medtronic has not been named in any such suits, if a substantial breach or loss of data from our records were to occur, we could become a target of such litigation. we are also impacted by the privacy requirements of countries outside the united states. privacy standards in europe and asia are becoming increasingly strict. enforcement action and financial penalties related to privacy in the eu are growing, and new 12 table of contents laws and restrictions are being passed. the management of cross border transfers of information among and outside of eu member countries is becoming more complex, which may complicate our clinical research activities, as well as product offerings that involve transmission or use of clinical data. china and russia have passed so-called data localization laws, which require multi-national companies that store certain individually identifiable data on their citizens to maintain that data on servers located in their country. restrictions on transfer or processing of that data may apply as well. these laws are new and the chinese and russian governments have not yet issued guidance on how they will apply or enforce them. the restrictions may complicate our operations in those countries, adding complexity and additional management and oversight needs. we will continue our efforts to comply with those requirements and to adapt our business processes to applicable laws. cost containment initiatives government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the u.s. these changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. government programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, creating centralized purchasing functions that set pricing and in some cases limiting the number of vendors that can participate in the purchasing program. hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians' collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. this has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. in addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. international examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms in markets significant to medtronic's business include japan, where the government reviews reimbursement rate benchmarks every two years, which may significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for those procedures. as a result of our manufacturing efficiencies, cost controls and other cost-savings initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation, new or changed coverage and reimbursement government or private payor policies or decisions, or other reforms, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results. regulations governing reimbursement the delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by hhs and comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. u.s. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the medicare and medicaid programs, as well as the government's interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. u.s. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under medicare, medicaid, or other federally-funded health care programs. the principal u.s. federal laws include: (1) the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of purchasing, ordering, recommending making referrals to items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program; (2) the false claims act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded health care program, including claims resulting from a violation of the anti-kickback statute; (3) the stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring medicare or medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer. there are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. insurance companies can also bring a private cause of action for treble damages against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, or rico. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) can be used to prosecute companies in the u.s. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the u.s. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. 13 table of contents the laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil financial penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by medicare. any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. our profitability and operations are subject to risks relating to changes in u.s. and foreign legislative, regulatory and reimbursement policies and decisions as well as changes to private payer reimbursement coverage and payment decisions and policies. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the u.s. and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. environmental health and safety laws we are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the u.s. like other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. to the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. litigation risks patent litigation we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. at any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. product liability and other claims we operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. these claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. we are also susceptible to other litigation, including private securities litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation. these claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of product liability litigation, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, goods, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows . and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. self-insurance with the exception of insurance that covidien currently holds for certain risks, we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. we made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. we maintain a directors and officers insurance policy providing limited coverage and we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. based on historical loss trends, we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses. historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. 14 table of contents section 13(r) of the exchange act under section 13(r) of the exchange act, the company is required to include certain disclosures in its periodic reports if the company or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. as part of its ongoing compliance program, the company identified certain sales of medical devices made during fiscal year 2015 by one of its non-u.s. affiliated entities to parties in iran that were not covered by a general license issued by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets controls ("ofac"). those sales, which were generally conducted through distributors, whose customers include public hospitals which may be owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the iranian government, resulted in approximately $4 million in gross revenues and approximately $3 million in net profits (excluding selling, general, and administrative expenses and allocations) in fiscal year 2015. at the time of these sales, the company believed, based on correspondence received from ofac in response to a request to renew the specific licenses the company had to cover these sales, that the sales were eligible for an ofac general license. the company subsequently obtained the specific licenses required for these continued sales. the company has also submitted an initial notification of voluntary self-disclosure regarding this matter to ofac. executive officers of medtronic set forth below are the names and ages of current section 16(b) executive officers of medtronic, as well as information regarding their positions with medtronic, their periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. there are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. omar ishrak , age 59, has been chairman and chief executive officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since june 2011. prior to that, mr. ishrak served as president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare systems, a division of ge healthcare, from 2009 to 2011. prior to that, mr. ishrak was president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare clinical systems from 2005 to 2008 and president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare ultrasound and bmd from 1995 to 2004. michael j. coyle, age 52, has been executive vice president and group president, cardiac and vascular group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since december 2009. prior to that, he served as president of the cardiac rhythm management division at st. jude from 2001 to 2007, and prior positions included serving st. jude as president of the company's daig catheter division and numerous leadership positions at eli lilly &amp; company. gary l. ellis, age 58, has been executive vice president and chief financial officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since april 2014. prior to that, he was senior vice president and chief financial officer from may 2005 to april 2014; vice president, corporate controller and treasurer from october 1999 to may 2005, and vice president and corporate controller from august 1994 to october 1999. mr. ellis joined medtronic in 1989 as assistant corporate controller and was promoted to vice president of finance for medtronic europe in 1992, until being named as corporate controller in 1994. mr. ellis is a member of the board of directors of the toro company and past chairman of the american heart association. hooman c. hakami , age 45, has been executive vice president and group president, diabetes group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since june 2014. prior to that, he was president and chief executive officer of detection and guidance solutions at ge healthcare from april 2012 to may 2014. prior to that, he served as president and chief executive officer of interventional systems from july 2009 to april 2012; global business transformation leader for ge healthcare from december 2008 to july 2009; and vice president and general manager, global ultrasound services from june 2004 to december 2008. mr. hakami started his career with ge and has held the following financial roles: chief financial officer for the global ultrasound division from 2001 to 2004; chief financial officer for clinical and multi-vendor services from 1999 to 2001; as well as various finance roles at ge capital from 1994 to 1999; ge's aerospace division from 1992 to 1994 and ge power systems from 1991 to 1992. bryan c. hanson , age 48, has been executive vice president and group president, minimally invasive therapies group of the company since january 2015. prior to that, he was senior vice president and group president, covidien since october 2014; senior vice president and group president, medical devices and united states of covidien from october 2013 to september 2014; senior vice president and group president of covidien for the surgical solutions business from july 2011 to october 2013; and president of covidien's energy-based devices business from july 2006 to june 2011. mr. hanson held several other positions of increasing responsibility in sales, marketing and general management with covidien from october 1992 to july 2006. bradley e. lerman , age 58, has been senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since may 2014. prior to that, he was executive vice president, general counsel, and corporate secretary at federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) from october 2012 to may 2014; senior vice president and chief litigation counsel at pfizer, inc. from january 2009 to september 2012; partner at winston &amp; strawn from august 15 table of contents 1998 to january 2009; partner at kirkland &amp; ellis from march 1996 to july 1998; associate independent counsel from october 1994 to march 1996; and assistant u.s. attorney in the northern district of illinois from february 1986 to september 1994. geoffrey s. martha , age 45, has been senior vice president of strategy and business development of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since august 2011. prior to that, he served as managing director of business development at ge healthcare from april 2007 to july 2011; general manager for ge capital technology finance services from november 2003 to march 2007; senior vice president, business development for ge capital vendor financial services from february 2002 to october 2003; general manager for ge capital colonial pacific leasing from february 2001 to january 2002; and vice president, business development for potomac federal, the ge capital federal financing investment bank from may 1998 to january 2001. christopher j. o'connell, age 48, has been executive vice president and group president, restorative therapies group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since august 2009. prior to that, he was senior vice president and president, diabetes from october 2006 to august 2009; president of medtronic's emergency response systems division from may 2005 to october 2006; and vice president of sales and marketing of medtronic's cardiac rhythm disease management division from november 2001 to may 2005. mr. o'connell has served in various management positions since joining the company in 1994. carol a. surface , age 49, has been senior vice president and chief human resources officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since september 2013. prior to that, she was the executive vice president and chief human resources officer at best buy co., inc. from march 2010 to september 2013, and held a series of hr leadership roles at pepsico inc., from may 2000 to march 2010. robert ten hoedt , age 54, has been executive vice president and president, emeac of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since may 2014. prior to that, he was senior vice president and president, emea and canada from 2009 to 2014; vice president cardiovascular europe and central asia from 2006 to 2009; vice president and general manager, vitatron from 1999 to 2006; gastro-uro leader from 1994 to 1999; and marketing manager, neurological from 1991 to 1994. item 1a. risk factors investing in us involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. each of the following risks should be carefully considered. based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. however, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones related to our businesses and are not necessarily listed in the order of their importance. additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. risks relating to the company we operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. in the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our products or proposed products less competitive. in addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. competitive factors include: product reliability, product performance, product technology, product quality, breadth of product lines, product services, customer support, price, and reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers. we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. in addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patient protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. these 16 table of contents companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products; reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in our industry. in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success in our industry. reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply or other manufacturing difficulties, may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. the manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. we manufacture most of our products at numerous manufacturing facilities located throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. however, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. in addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the u.s. fda regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. a reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and to make our related product sales. other problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. in addition, several of our key products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of such facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at the previous levels or at all. because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing capacity is lost. moreover, pursuant to the conflict minerals requirements promulgated by the sec as a part of dodd-frank, we are required to report on the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, as well as the process we use to determine the source of such materials. we will incur expenses as we work with our suppliers to evaluate the source of any conflict minerals in our products, and compliance with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of our raw materials. our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater regulation in the future. our medical devices and technologies and our business activities are subject to a complex regime of regulations and an aggressive enforcement environment, including by the u.s. fda, doj, health and human services-office of the inspector general, and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. these authorities and members of congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. in addition, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with health care providers. as a result, we are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers of value to health care providers licensed by certain states and, starting with payments or other transfers of value made on or after august 1, 2013, to all u.s. physicians and u.s. teaching hospitals at the federal level. any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. in addition, we may continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations. we are subject to costly and complex u.s. and foreign laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous u.s. and foreign government agencies, including the u.s. fda and comparable agencies outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations 17 table of contents governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. even if we are able to obtain such approval or clearance, it may: take a significant amount of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, involve modifications, repairs, or replacements of our products, and result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda regulations. many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the u.s. fda to determine compliance with the u.s. fda's requirements, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. the results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on u.s. fda's form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. since 2009, the u.s. fda has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. the u.s. fda has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the u.s. fda may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the doj. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. in addition, device manufacturers are permitted to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. a number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for off-label uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for off-label uses constitute false and fraudulent claims to the government. the failure to comply with off-label promotion restrictions can result in significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. pursuant to dodd-frank, the sec promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. under the rules, we are now required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. as of the date of each of medtronic inc.'s and covidien's conflict minerals report for the 2014 calendar year, each of medtronic, inc. and covidien were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of its respective suppliers and was unable to determine that all of its respective products are conflict free. in addition, we may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. penalties for a company's non-compliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. any domestic or foreign governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents 18 table of contents in medical equipment and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs, and the health and safety of our employees. our operations involve the use of substances regulated under such laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. if we violate these environmental laws and regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. furthermore, environmental laws outside of the u.s. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. in addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain u.s. federal and state laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. we may in the future be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup based on our, medtronic, inc. and covidien's past, present or future business activities. the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flow. our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. as a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by hhs, including the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) as well as comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services. the principal u.s. federal laws implicated include those that prohibit (i) the filing of false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws, (ii) unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and (iii) health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the stark law. many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payors. insurance companies can also bring a private cause of action for treble damages against a manufacturer for causing a false claim to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, rico. our profitability and international operations are subject to risks relating to changes in u.s. and foreign medical government and private reimbursement programs and policies and changes in u.s. and foreign legal regulatory requirements. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the u.s. and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. the laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by cms. any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. 19 table of contents we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. we also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation against us can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. at any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, we believe the results associated with any such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, pending patent applications owned by us may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. in addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, goods, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows. quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure and our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. in addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. these problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. due to the strong name recognition of the medtronic and covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. in addition, our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. if we fail to meet these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. our success also depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. if our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. in certain situations, we also may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. further, we have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks and any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend. see "our self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses." any of the foregoing problems, including product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate 20 table of contents outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. health care policy changes, including u.s. health care reform legislation, signed in 2010, may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators, and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the u.s. health care system. certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. the adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in march 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010. certain provisions of the law will not be effective for a number of years and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impacts will be from the law. the legislation imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3 percent excise tax on all u.s. medical device sales that commenced in january 2013. under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry is expected to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. the law also focuses on a number of medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. it is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. the medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for medicare payments to hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in medicare spending. we cannot predict what health care programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. however, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. we made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. we maintain a directors and officers policy providing limited coverage and continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. while based on historical loss trends we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, we cannot guarantee that this will remain true. historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. the fact that we do not maintain third-party insurance coverage for all categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. if we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer. we may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates, and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. if the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. we may experience higher costs to produce our products as a result of changes in prices for oil, gas and other commodities. we use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products. prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. oil, gas and pulp prices are volatile and may increase, resulting in higher costs to produce and distribute our products. new laws or regulations adopted in response to climate change could also increase energy costs and the costs of certain raw materials and components. due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost-containment efforts of our customers and third-party payers, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. if we are unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 21 table of contents continuing worldwide economic instability could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis. this global financial crisis continues to cause disruption in the financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, during certain periods. there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy. our customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. as with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. in addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. in light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located outside the u.s. failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to a variety of market and financial risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results. operations in countries outside of the u.s., accounting for approximately 44 percent of our net sales for the fiscal year ended april 24, 2015, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the u.s., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, healthcare reform legislation, multiple non-u.s. regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, local product preferences and product requirements, longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s., trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the u.s. than exists in the u.s., different labor regulations and workforce instability, political and economic instability, the potential payment of u.s. income taxes on earnings of certain controlled foreign subsidiaries subject to u.s. taxation upon repatriation, the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. in particular, the obama administration has announced potential legislative proposals to tax profits of u.s. companies earned abroad. while it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are subject to u.s. income tax, or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits. finally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our foreign currency revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. the failure to comply with u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdiction could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such anti-bribery laws. global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by u.s. and foreign governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. it is our policy to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on 22 table of contents these legal requirements and discourage improper practices. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. in addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire. any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. laws and regulations governing the export of our products could adversely impact our business. the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac), and the bureau of industry and security at the u.s. department of commerce (bis), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict u.s. persons and, in some instances, non-u.s. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to u.s. economic sanctions. due to our international operations, we are subject to such laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including iran, sudan, syria, cuba and those in the region of crimea. certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices and surgical tools, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. these business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. many health care industry companies, including health care systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. as the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. these industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. if we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the health care industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows would suffer. our business is indirectly subject to health care industry cost-containment measures that could result in reduced sales of medical devices and medical devices containing our components. most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. the continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. if third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. the cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the u.s. and internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. for example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. in an effort to reduce costs, many existing and potential customers for our products within the u.s. have become members of group purchase organizations (gpos) and integrated delivery networks (idns). gpos and idns negotiate pricing arrangement with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. gpos and idns typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. due to the highly competitive nature of the gpo and idn contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major gpos and idns across our product portfolio. furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. while having a contract with a gpo and idn for a given product category can facilitate sales to members of that gpo or idn, such contract positions can offer no assurance that sales volumes of those products will be maintained. gpos and idns increasingly are awarding contracts to multiple suppliers for the same product category. even when we are the sole contracted supplier of a 23 table of contents gpo or idn for a certain product category, members of the gpo or idn generally are free to purchase from other suppliers. furthermore, gpo and idn contracts typically are terminable without cause upon 60 to 90 days' notice. accordingly, although we have multiple contracts with many major gpos and idns, the members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. the rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. in addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. we expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. the continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. the research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. if we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business and if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data or if our products do not operate as intended or we experience a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems, our business could be materially affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-today operations. the size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. in addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or the company's proprietary information. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 24 table of contents negative conditions in the global credit market may impair our commercial paper program, our auction rate securities, and our other fixed income securities, which may cause us losses and liquidity issues. we have investments in marketable debt securities that are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. our debt securities include u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, debt funds, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, including auction rate securities. market conditions over the past several years have included periods of significant economic uncertainty and at times general market distress, especially in the banking and financial services sector. during these periods of economic uncertainty, we may experience reduced liquidity across the fixed-income investment market, including the securities in which we invest. in the event we need to sell these securities, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner or for a value that is equal to the underlying principal. in addition, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. if we determine that the fair value of such securities is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders' equity. if it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in our consolidated statements of earnings, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. negative market conditions may also impair our ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of commercial paper or debt securities, or may impact our ability to sell such securities at a reasonable price and may negatively impact our ability to borrow from financial institutions. our products are continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market's or u.s. fda's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years, including the recent acquisition of covidien, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. these efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential liability imposed by fcpa, any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, our ability to retain key employees, and the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. we also could experience negative effects on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. these effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 25 table of contents the medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. these investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to rigorous regulation by the u.s. fda and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. these authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the u.s. doj and the office of inspector general of hhs. these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance, and product promotional practices. we cooperate with these investigations and respond to such requests. however, when an investigation begins, we cannot predict when it will be resolved, the outcome of the investigation, or its impact on us. an adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, entry into corporate integrity agreements (cias) with governmental agencies and amendments to existing cias. in addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. as of april 24, 2015, our total consolidated external debt was approximately $36.2 billion. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal in indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various jurisdictions outside the u.s. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, legislation in 2010 imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical device manufacturers for u.s. sales of medical devices beginning in january 2013. proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. medtronic, inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. in march 2009, the irs issued its audit report for medtronic inc.'s fiscal years 2005 and 2006. medtronic, inc. reached agreements with the irs on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. on december 23, 2010, the irs issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to the remaining issues. medtronic, inc. filed a petition with the u.s. tax court on march 21, 2011 objecting to the deficiency. during october and november 2012, medtronic, inc. reached a resolution with the irs on various matters, including the deductibility of a settlement payment. medtronic, inc. and the irs agreed to hold one issue, the calculation of amounts eligible for the one-time repatriation holiday, because such issue was being addressed by other taxpayers in litigation 26 table of contents with the irs. the remaining unresolved issue relates to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico, which is one of the company's key manufacturing sites. the tax court proceeding with respect to this issue began on february 3, 2015 and ended on march 12, 2015. the company expects a ruling from the tax court during fiscal year 2017. examination and audits by tax authorities, and covidien's tax sharing agreement with tyco international plc and te connectivity ltd., could result in additional tax payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our and covidien's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. on june 29, 2007, covidien entered into a tax sharing agreement with tyco international plc (tyco international) and te connectivity ltd. (te connectivity) pursuant to which covidien, tyco international and te connectivity agreed to share 42%, 27% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to covidien's, tyco international's and te connectivity's u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of covidien's 2007 separation from tyco international (2007 separation). under the tax sharing agreement, tyco international currently has the right to administer, control and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. the timing, nature and amount of any settlement agreed to by tyco international may not be in our or covidien's best interests. the other parties to the tax sharing agreement can remove tyco international as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of tyco international, or by a majority vote of the parties. in connection with the 2007 separation, all tax liabilities associated with covidien's business became covidien's tax liabilities. following covidien's spin-off of its pharmaceuticals business to covidien shareholders through a distribution of all the outstanding ordinary shares of mallinkrodt (2013 separation), mallinckrodt became the primary obligor to the taxing authorities for the tax liabilities attributable to its subsidiaries, a significant portion of which relate to periods prior to the 2007 separation. however, covidien remains the sole party subject to the tax sharing agreement with tyco international and te connectivity. accordingly, mallinckrodt does not share in covidien's liability to tyco international and te connectivity, nor in the receivable that covidien has from tyco international and te connectivity. although covidien shares certain tax liabilities with tyco international and te connectivity pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, if tyco international and te connectivity default on their obligations to covidien under the tax sharing agreement, covidien would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. further, if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, covidien could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and be required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, covidien may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of the agreed upon share of covidien's, tyco international's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. on september 28, 2012, tyco international spun-off two of its businesses to its shareholders, with tyco international remaining as a publicly-traded company. this could have a material adverse impact on tyco international's ability to fulfill its obligations to us under the tax sharing agreement. in addition, the irs has concluded its field examination of certain of tyco international's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000 and proposed tax adjustments, several of which also affect covidien's income tax returns for years after 2000. tyco international has appealed certain of the tax adjustments proposed by the irs and has resolved all but one of the matters associated with the proposed tax adjustments. with respect to the outstanding issue that remains in dispute, on june 20, 2013, tyco international advised covidien that it had received notices of deficiency from the irs asserting that several of tyco international's former u.s. subsidiaries owe additional taxes of $914 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco international and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the position taken by the irs is ultimately proved correct. the irs has asserted in the notices of deficiency that substantially all of tyco international's intercompany debt originating during the years 1997 through 2000 should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and has disallowed interest deductions related to the intercompany debt and certain tax attribute adjustments recognized on tyco international's u.s. income tax returns totaling approximately $3.0 billion. on july 22, 2013, tyco international filed a petition with the u.s. tax court contesting the irs assessment. the outcome of any such litigation is uncertain and could result in a significant increase in liability for taxes arising during these periods. in particular, if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would likely assert that approximately $6.6 billion of interest deductions with respect to tyco international's intercompany debt in subsequent time periods should also be disallowed. the company has provided reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. therefore, 27 table of contents any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the company's estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges to expense and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the distribution of mallinckrodt ordinary shares to covidien shareholders in 2013, the distribution of covidien and te connectivity common shares by tyco international to its shareholders in 2007 or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of either the 2013 or the 2007 separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and covidien could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. covidien received an irs ruling substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, (i) certain transactions effected in connection with its 2013 separation of mallinckrodt qualify as transactions under sections 355 and/or 368(a) of the code, and (ii) the distribution qualifies as a transaction under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. in addition to obtaining the irs ruling, covidien received a tax opinion from skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom llp, in form and substance acceptable to covidien, which relied on the effectiveness of the irs ruling, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distribution and certain transactions entered into in connection with the distribution qualify as transactions under sections 355 and/or 368(a) of the code. tyco international has received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and te connectivity common shares by tyco international to its shareholders, substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share, of covidien shares and the te connectivity common shares, qualifies as tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation from tyco international qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, tyco international obtained tax opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings (a) in the case of the 2013 separation, from covidien and mallinckrodt, and (b) in the case of the 2007 separation, from covidien, te connectivity and tyco international, regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the tax opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the 2013 distribution or the 2007 distribution or the related internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the respective facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distributions, or if the irs were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinions that are not covered by the irs rulings. we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities or tax indemnification obligations, whether under applicable law or the tax matters agreement that was entered into with mallinckrodt, if it is ultimately determined that certain related transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2013 distribution are taxable. we could also incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of covidien's separation from tyco international should be treated as taxable transactions. our tax position may be adversely affected by changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations. recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, limit the ability of foreign-owned corporations to deduct interest expense, tax the accumulated unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries of u.s. corporations, impose a minimum tax on the future offshore earnings of u.s. multinational groups, and to make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations. additionally, the u.s. congress, government agencies in non-u.s. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business, and the organisation for economic co-operation and development have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting, where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. the organisation for economic co-operation and development has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the u.s., ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business. moreover, u.s. and foreign tax authorities may carefully scrutinize companies that result from a cross-border business combination (such as us), which may lead such authorities to assert that we owe additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 28 table of contents risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. a transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the depository trust company, may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company (dtc) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold our shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. the potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of your shares. in certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and other specified countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through dtc will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. shareholders entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with ireland other than their shareholding in our company (for example, they are resident in ireland). shareholders who receive dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends. our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax (cat) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 225,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. risks relating to the covidien acquisition (the transactions) we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transactions or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating medtronic, inc. and covidien. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transactions will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the medtronic, inc. and covidien businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of medtronic, inc. and covidien. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented 29 table of contents ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the transaction. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of the businesses of medtronic, inc. and covidien are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of medtronic, inc. and covidien. all of these factors could negatively impact our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. as a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the medtronic, inc. and covidien businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction. future potential changes to the u.s. tax laws could result in us being treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and the irs may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s federal income tax purposes. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. even so, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). under section 7874 of the code, if medtronic inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the transaction hold 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction does not have substantial business activities in ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. based on the rules for determining share ownership under section 7874 of the code, medtronic, inc.'s shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. therefore, under current law, we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. in addition, changes to section 7874 or the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder could affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application. since section 7874 was enacted, there have been various legislative proposals to broaden its scope. such proposals could, among other things, treat a foreign acquiring corporation as a u.s. corporation under section 7874 if the former shareholders of the u.s. corporation own more than 50% of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the transaction, or if the foreign corporation's affiliated group has substantial business activities in the u.s. and the foreign corporation is primarily managed and controlled in the u.s. accordingly, if enacted in their present form and retroactively effective to apply to the transactions, such proposals could cause us to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, based on our existing expected cash flows, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. specifically, if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, we would be subject to u.s. corporate income tax on our worldwide income, and the income of our foreign subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. tax when repatriated or when deemed recognized under the u.s. tax rules for controlled foreign corporations (cfc's). additionally, covidien's foreign 30 table of contents corporations, which are not currently cfc's, would become cfc's making them potentially subject to current or future u.s. taxation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the u.s. treasury department and the irs may promulgate rules that would adversely affect our tax position. the u.s. treasury department has announced that it is examining possible changes in the regulatory rules affecting companies that move their tax domicile outside the u.s. in the event the u.s. treasury department and the irs were to change the applicable regulatory rules, we could face potentially substantial tax costs as a result of the transactions. we are unable to assess the potential impact of any such possible changes, if adopted, until they are announced. on september 22, 2014, the u.s. treasury department and the irs issued new guidance announcing their intention to issue regulations interpreting multiple sections of the code, including section 7874, to address inversion transactions and transactions that treasury and the irs characterize as post-inversion tax avoidance transactions (the irs notice). when issued, such regulations would apply to transactions completed on or after september 22, 2014. the regulations described in the irs notice would expand the set of circumstances under which section 7874 applies to cause the foreign acquirer of a u.s. corporation to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. such regulations would also impose additional u.s. taxes on certain transactions involving the acquired u.s. corporation's cfc's. the regulations interpreting section 7874 of the code announced in the irs notice are not expected to cause us to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, if ultimately upheld by a reviewing court, the regulations announced in the irs notice would be expected to limit our ability to engage in various intercompany transactions involving non-u.s. subsidiaries. in addition, in the irs notice, the u.s. treasury department and the irs announced their intention to issue additional guidance in the future intended to restrict our ability to undertake certain transactions which could reduce our u.s. tax liability. according to the irs notice, such guidance may include, among other things, limitations on our ability to deduct interest on certain intercompany debt for u.s federal income tax purposes. we are unable to predict the likelihood that any such guidance will be issued, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated thereunder or the effect such guidance may have on our business. the transaction may not allow us to maintain competitive global cash management and a low effective corporate tax rate. while we believe that being incorporated in ireland should help us maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate and provide flexible global cash management, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we will operate. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of u.s. federal or state governmental contracts to u.s. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes. in a period where the u.s. dollar is strengthening/weakening as compared to other currencies, our revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at a lower/higher value than they would be in an otherwise constant currency exchange rate environment. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows. in order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. these contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. at inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. the primary currencies of the derivative instruments are the euro and japanese yen. fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. we do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes. the gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at april 24, 2015 and april 26, 2014 was $9.782 billion and $8.051 billion, respectively. at april 24, 2015 , these contracts were in an unrealized gain position of $599 million. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency exchange rate derivative contracts at april 24, 2015 indicates that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase/decrease by approximately $586 million. any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. these offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. our debt portfolio as of april 24, 2015 , was comprised of debt predominately denominated in u.s. dollars. our debt portfolio was comprised of approximately 90% fixed rate debt and approximately 10% floating-rate debt as of april 24, 2015 . we are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements, and forward starting interest rate swap agreements. a sensitivity analysis of the impact on our investments in interest rate sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, compared to interest rates as of april 24, 2015 , indicates that the fair value of these instruments would correspondingly change by $76 million. for a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional discussion of market risk, see notes 5 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors - failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business." acquisition of covidien plc in fiscal year 2015 on january 26, 2015, pursuant to a transaction agreement, dated as of june 15, 2014 (the transaction agreement), medtronic, inc. and covidien became subsidiaries of the company. the total cash and stock value of the covidien acquisition was $50.0 billion. the operating results for covidien are included in the minimally invasive therapies group, cardiac and vascular group and restorative therapies group segments. based upon the acquisition valuation, the company acquired $18.3 billion of customer-related intangible assets, $7.1 billion of technology-based intangible assets, $430 million of tradenames, with weighted average estimated useful lives of 18 , 16 , and 6 years , respectively, $420 million of in-process research and development (ipr&amp;d), and $30.0 billion of goodwill. fiscal year 2016 acquisitions twelve, inc. on october 2, 2015, the company's coronary &amp; structural heart division acquired twelve, inc. (twelve), a privately-held medical device company focused on the development of a transcatheter mitral valve replacement device. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $472 million , which included an upfront payment of $428 million and the estimated fair value of product development-based contingent consideration of $44 million . based upon the acquisition valuation, the company acquired $192 million of ipr&amp;d and $291 million of goodwill. rf surgical systems, inc. on august 11, 2015, the company's surgical solutions division acquired rf surgical systems, inc. (rf surgical), a medical device company focused on the detection and prevention of retained surgical sponges. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $240 million . based upon the acquisition valuation, the company acquired $68 million of technology-based intangible assets, $47 million of customer-related intangible assets, with estimated useful lives of 18 and 16 years, respectively, and $135 million of goodwill. medina medical on august 31, 2015, the company's neurovascular division acquired medina medical (medina), a privately-held medical device company focused on commercializing treatments for vascular abnormalities of the brain, including cerebral aneurysms. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $219 million , which includes an upfront payment of $155 million and the estimated fair value of revenue-based and product development-based contingent consideration of $64 million . medtronic had previously invested in medina and held an 11 percent ownership position. net of this ownership position, the transaction value was approximately $195 million . based upon the acquisition valuation, the company acquired $122 million of ipr&amp;d and $126 million of goodwill. 7 table of contents patents and licenses we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. we have filed and obtained numerous patents in the u.s. and abroad, and regularly file patent applications worldwide in our continuing effort to establish and protect our proprietary technology. u.s. patents typically have a 20-year term from the application date while patent protection outside the u.s. varies from country to country. in addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses relating to a wide array of third-party technologies. we have also obtained certain trademarks and tradenames for our products to distinguish our genuine products from our competitors' products, and we maintain certain details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade secrets. in the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to any segment of our business as a whole. our efforts to protect our intellectual property and avoid disputes over proprietary rights have included ongoing review of third-party patents and patent applications. for additional information see item 1a. risk factors - we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. markets and distribution methods we sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the u.s. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the u.s. for certain portions of our business acquired through the covidien acquisition, we also sell through distributors in the u.s. our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, gpos and integrated delivery networks (idns) primarily through third-party distributors, although we also have direct sales representatives. we often negotiate with gpos and idns, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. our three largest markets are the u.s., western europe, and japan. emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity as we believe they remain under-penetrated. our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide - including physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions, and gpos. to achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. this focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. we believe that we maintain excellent working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic developments, trends, and emerging opportunities and respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and patients. we attempt to enhance our presence in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. we believe that these activities contribute to physician expertise. in keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. this enhanced purchasing power may lead to pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. our customer base continues to evolve to reflect such economic changes across the geographic markets we serve. we are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales. competition and industry we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. our product lines face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. in addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. in addition, in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products. 8 table of contents worldwide operations our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country; often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s. currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows from operations outside the u.s. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, the repatriation of earnings of certain subsidiaries outside the u.s. may result in substantial u.s. tax cost. for financial reporting purposes, net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. production and availability of raw materials we manufacture most of our products at 89 manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. for additional information related to our manufacturing facilities refer to item 2. in this annual report on form 10-k. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. due to the u.s. fda's requirements regarding manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our operations. we have reporting and disclosure requirements related to the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. pursuant to these requirements, we are required to report on form sd the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. as of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2015 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. we may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. working capital practices our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to ensure adequate supply of raw materials from suppliers and meet the product delivery needs of our customers. we also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. employees on april 29, 2016 , we employed more than 88,000 full-time employees. our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment. seasonality worldwide sales, including u.s. sales, do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality; however, the number of medical procedures incorporating medtronic products is generally lower during summer months, due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in european countries. in addition, pulse oximetry sales can be impacted by flu season. government regulation and other considerations our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda and similar agencies outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. our business is also affected by patient privacy laws, cost containment initiatives and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. the primary laws and regulations that affect our business are described below. 9 table of contents the laws applicable to us are subject to change and are subject to evolving interpretations. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, medtronic and its officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by medicare or medicaid. product approval processes authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device or technology in the u.s. is generally received in one of two ways. the first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device or technology is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device or technology. in this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. if human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with u.s. fda investigational device exemption regulations. we must receive an order from the u.s. fda finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device or technology before we can commercially distribute the new medical device or technology. modifications to cleared medical devices or technologies can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. minimally invasive therapies group products are generally subject to the pre-market notification process. a very small number of our devices are exempt from pre-market review. the second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (pma), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective. we do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. the u.s. fda will authorize commercial distribution if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective. this determination is based on the benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the device. this process is much more detailed, time-consuming, and expensive than the 510(k) process. a third, seldom used, process for approval exists for humanitarian use devices, intended for patient populations of less than 4,000 patients per year in the u.s. this exemption is similar to the pma process; however, a full showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. the threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety. many countries outside the u.s. to which we export medical devices also subject such medical devices and technologies to their own regulatory requirements. frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a country outside of the u.s. prior to application in the u.s. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as china for example, require approval in the country of origin first. most countries outside of the u.s. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. the recertification process requires that we evaluate any device or technology changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device or technology and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. because export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations are complex and constantly changing, it is possible that laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our ability to sell or distribute products. in the e.u., a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the ce mark. to obtain a ce mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. a notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. medtronic is subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. the competent authorities of the e.u. countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. we are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws transcribing the medical device directives. we anticipate a new medical device regulation to be published by the european union in 2016, and it is likely to impose additional premarket and postmarket requirements. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or shonin. the japanese government, through the ministry of health, labour, and welfare (mhlw), regulates medical devices under the pharmaceutical affairs law (pal). oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the pharmaceutical and medical devices agency (pmda), a quasi-government organization performing many of the review functions for mhlw. penalties for a company's noncompliance with pal could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. mhlw and pmda also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the requirements of the pal. medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies. our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on 10 table of contents existing regulations. certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. while harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. we expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future. there can be no assurance that any new medical devices we develop will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all. ongoing u.s. fda regulations both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda regulations. the u.s. fda reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. we are also subject to periodic inspection by the u.s. fda for compliance with the u.s. fda's quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. in addition, the u.s. fda and other u.s. regulatory bodies (including the federal trade commission, the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, the u. s. department of justice, and various state attorneys general) monitor the manner in which we promote and advertise our products. although surgeons are permitted to use their medical judgment to employ medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the u.s. fda, the u.s. fda has prohibited manufacturers from promoting products for such off-label uses, and has taken the position that manufacturers can only market their products for cleared or approved uses. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, or ban such medical devices. the u.s. fda may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, including a hold on approving new devices until issues are resolved to its satisfaction, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u. s. department of justice. conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct. in april 2015, we entered into a consent decree with the u.s. fda relating to our neuromodulation business' synchromed drug infusion system and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree requires the company to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the synchromed pump and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree limits the company's ability to manufacture and distribute the synchromed drug infusion system, unless specific conditions are met. the agreement does not require the retrieval of any of the company's products, but the company must retain a third-party expert to inspect the neuromodulation quality system and to provide a certification that the system complies with the requirements of the consent decree. once this certification is accepted by the u.s. fda, and a u.s. fda inspection is successfully completed, the limitations on manufacturer and distribution of synchromed pumps will be lifted. thereafter, the company must submit periodic audit reports to the u.s. fda to ensure ongoing compliance with the consent decree. in june 2016, tyrx, inc. received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the tyrx facility in monmouth junction, new jersey. the company is taking action to address the warning letter and has submitted a response to the u.s. fda. governmental trade regulations the sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. a variety of laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the countries in which we transact business, apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across international borders. because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import and export activities. the u.s. fda, in cooperation with u.s. customs and border protection (cbp), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the u.s. the cbp imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. medtronic is also subject to foreign trade controls administered by several u.s. government agencies, including the bureau of industry and security within the commerce department and the office of foreign assets control within the treasury department. we import raw materials, components and finished products into the countries in which we transact business. we act as the importer of record in many instances, but we also sell and ship goods to third parties who are themselves responsible for complying with applicable trade laws and regulations. in our role as importer of record, we are directly responsible for complying with customs laws and regulations concerning the importation of our raw materials, components and 11 table of contents finished products. if applicable government agencies were to determine that we or such third parties were not in compliance with applicable u.s. fda or customs laws and regulations when engaging in cross-border transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, depending on the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. in addition, such determinations may cause supply chain disruptions and delays in the distribution of our products that impact our business activities. many countries, including the u.s., control the export and re-export of goods, technology and services for reasons including public health, national security, regional stability, antiterrorism policies and other reasons. in certain circumstances, approval from governmental authorities may be required before goods, technology or services are exported or re-exported to certain destinations, to certain end-users and for certain end-uses. in addition, international sales of our medical devices that have not received u.s. fda approval are subject to u.s. fda export requirements. some governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. in addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct export activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. if applicable government agencies were to determine that we, or the third parties through which we export goods, were not in compliance with applicable export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations when engaging in transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. similarly, such determinations may cause disruption or delays in the distribution and sales of our products, or result in restrictions being placed upon our international distribution and sales of products which may materially impact our business activities. anti-boycott laws under u.s. laws and regulations, u.s. companies and their controlled-in-fact subsidiaries and affiliates outside the u.s are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the u.s. or between the u.s. and a foreign country. currently, the u.s. considers the arab league boycott of israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott. we are responsible for ensuring we comply with the requirements of u.s. anti-boycott laws for all transactions in which we are involved. if we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, are determined to have violated u.s. anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. penalties for any violations of anti-boycott laws and regulations could include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, loss of export privileges and the denial of certain tax benefits, including foreign tax credits, and outside u.s subsidiary deferrals. data privacy and security laws and regulations the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the u.s. federal and state, international and industry levels. u.s. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. for example, the u.s. fda has issued guidance advising manufacturers to review their cybersecurity practices and policies to assure that appropriate safeguards are in place to prevent unauthorized access or modification to their medical devices or compromise of the security of the hospital network that may be connected to the device. moreover, in april 2003, the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) published patient privacy rules under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa) and, in april 2005, published security rules for protected health information. the hipaa privacy and security rules govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by covered entities, which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses. in 2009, congress passed the hitech act, which modified certain provisions of the hipaa privacy and security rules for covered entities and their business associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the covered entity's workforce). these included directing hhs to publish more specific security standards, and increasing breach notification requirements, as well as tightening certain aspects of the privacy rules. hhs published the final versions of these new rules in january 2013, and covered entities and business associates were expected to be in compliance by september 2013. in addition, the hitech act provided that business associates will now be subject to the same security requirements as covered entities, and that with regard to both the security and privacy rule, business associates will be subject to direct enforcement by hhs, including civil and criminal liability, just as covered entities are. in the past, hipaa has generally affected us indirectly, but these modifications increase the potential for enforcement action against us as a business associate. medtronic is generally not a covered entity, except for our diabetes business, medtronic monitoring, inc. and our health insurance plans. medtronic only operates as a business associate to covered entities in a limited number of instances. in those cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may include protected health information. a number of states have also adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers or that are designed to protect credit card account data. 12 table of contents state and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. state consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. we are also impacted by the privacy requirements of countries outside the united states. privacy standards in europe and asia are becoming increasingly strict. enforcement action and financial penalties related to privacy in the e.u. are growing, and new laws and restrictions are being passed. in april of 2016, the european council and the parliament adopted the new general data protection regulation, which sets demanding requirements for the management of individually identifiable data in the e.u. the management of cross border transfers of information among and outside of e.u. member countries is becoming more complex, which may complicate our clinical research activities, as well as product offerings that involve transmission or use of clinical data. china and russia have passed so-called data localization laws, which require multi-national companies that store certain individually identifiable data on their citizens to maintain that data on servers located in their country. restrictions on transfer or processing of that data may apply as well. the restrictions may complicate our operations in those countries, adding complexity and additional management and oversight needs, and the chinese and russian governments are still clarifying how they will apply and enforce these laws. cost containment initiatives government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the u.s. these changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. government programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, creating centralized purchasing functions that set pricing and in some cases limiting the number of vendors that can participate in the purchasing program. hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians' collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. this has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. in addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. international examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms in markets significant to medtronic's business include japan, where the government reviews reimbursement rate benchmarks every two years, which may significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for those procedures. as a result of our manufacturing efficiencies, cost controls and other cost-savings initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation, new or changed coverage and reimbursement government or private payer policies or decisions, or other reforms, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results. regulations governing reimbursement the delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by hhs and comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. u.s. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the medicare and medicaid programs, as well as the government's interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. other governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. u.s. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under medicare, medicaid, or other federally-funded health care programs. the principal u.s. federal laws include: (1) the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of purchasing, ordering, recommending making referrals to items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program; (2) the false claims act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded health care program, including claims resulting from a violation of the anti-kickback statute; (3) the stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring medicare or medicaid patients 13 table of contents to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer. there are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. insurance companies can also bring a private cause of action for treble damages against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, or rico. in addition, as a manufacturer the u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. further, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) can be used to prosecute companies in the u.s. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the u.s. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. the laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil financial penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by medicare. any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. our profitability and operations are subject to risks relating to changes in legislative, regulatory and reimbursement policies and decisions as well as changes to private payer reimbursement coverage and payment decisions and policies. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the u.s. and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. environmental health and safety laws we are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the u.s. similar to other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. to the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. litigation risks patent litigation we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. at any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. product liability and other claims we operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. these claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. we are also susceptible to other litigation, including private securities litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation. these claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of product liability litigation, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, goods, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows . and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. 14 table of contents insurance we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the company, and we made this decision based on costs and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we continue to maintain a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy providing coverage for the directors and officers of the company. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. based on historical loss trends, we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses. historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. section 13(r) of the exchange act under section 13(r) of the exchange act, the company is required to include certain disclosures in its periodic reports if the company or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. as a global medical device company, medtronic conducts business throughout the world, including supplying life enhancing medical products for patient use in iran in accordance with authorizations issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac) and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and consistent with the company's corporate policies. as part of its ongoing global trade compliance program, the company identified that certain authorized shipments during the period covered by this report, which were arranged and effectuated by third-party logistics providers, were sent to iran on aircraft owned or operated by iran air. this air carrier was designated under executive order 13382 during the relevant time period. iran air's designation under executive order 13382 was terminated on january 16, 2016. while medtronic paid associated freight expenses to the third-party logistics company, there were no gross revenues or net profits accrued by medtronic as a result of iran air being used by the third-party logistics providers. medtronic is taking corrective actions with regard to its third party logistics providers to confirm that air carriers designated under the executive orders are not used to ship medtronic medical products in the future , and will implement additional controls as necessary. the company has also notified ofac regarding this matter. executive officers of medtronic set forth below are the names and ages of current section 16(b) executive officers of medtronic, as well as information regarding their positions with medtronic, their periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. there are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. omar ishrak , age 60, has been chairman and chief executive officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since june 2011. prior to that, mr. ishrak served as president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare systems, a division of ge healthcare, from 2009 to 2011. prior to that, mr. ishrak was president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare clinical systems from 2005 to 2008 and president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare ultrasound and bmd from 1995 to 2004. michael j. coyle, age 54, has been executive vice president and group president, cardiac and vascular group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since december 2009. prior to that, he served as president of the cardiac rhythm management division at st. jude from 2001 to 2007, and prior positions included serving st. jude as president of the company's daig catheter division and numerous leadership positions at eli lilly &amp; company. gary l. ellis, age 59, has served as executive vice president of global operations and information technology since june 2016. mr. ellis previously served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of the company beginning in january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. beginning in april 2014. prior to that, he was senior vice president and chief financial officer from may 2005 to april 2014; vice president, corporate controller and treasurer from october 1999 to may 2005, and vice president and corporate controller from august 1994 to october 1999. mr. ellis joined medtronic in 1989 as assistant corporate controller and was promoted to vice president of finance for medtronic europe in 1992, until being named as corporate controller in 1994. mr. ellis is a member of the board of directors of the toro company and past chairman of the american heart association. hooman c. hakami , age 46, has been executive vice president and group president, diabetes group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since june 2014. prior to that, he was president and chief executive officer of detection and guidance solutions at ge healthcare from april 2012 to may 2014. prior to that, he served as president and chief executive officer of interventional systems from july 2009 to april 2012; global business transformation leader for ge healthcare from december 2008 to july 2009; and vice president and general manager, global ultrasound services from june 2004 to december 2008. mr. hakami started his career with ge and has held the following financial roles: chief financial officer for the global ultrasound division from 2001 to 2004; chief financial officer for clinical and multi-vendor services from 1999 to 2001; as well as various finance roles at ge capital from 1994 to 1999; ge's aerospace division from 1992 to 1994 and ge power systems from 1991 to 1992. 15 table of contents bryan c. hanson , age 49, has been executive vice president and group president, minimally invasive therapies group of the company since february 2015. prior to that, he was senior vice president and group president, covidien since october 2014; senior vice president and group president, medical devices and united states of covidien from october 2013 to september 2014; senior vice president and group president of covidien for the surgical solutions business from july 2011 to october 2013; and president of covidien's energy-based devices business from july 2006 to june 2011. mr. hanson held several other positions of increasing responsibility in sales, marketing and general management with covidien from october 1992 to july 2006. bradley e. lerman , age 59, has been senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since may 2014. prior to that, he was executive vice president, general counsel, and corporate secretary at federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) from october 2012 to may 2014; senior vice president and chief litigation counsel at pfizer, inc. from january 2009 to september 2012; partner at winston &amp; strawn from august 1998 to january 2009; partner at kirkland &amp; ellis from march 1996 to july 1998; associate independent counsel from october 1994 to march 1996; and assistant u.s. attorney in the northern district of illinois from february 1986 to september 1994. geoffrey s. martha , age 46, has been executive vice president and president, restorative therapies group since june 2015. mr. martha previously served as senior vice president of strategy and business development of the company beginning in january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. beginning in august 2011. prior to that, he served as managing director of business development at ge healthcare from april 2007 to july 2011; general manager for ge capital technology finance services from november 2003 to march 2007; senior vice president, business development for ge capital vendor financial services from february 2002 to october 2003; general manager for ge capital colonial pacific leasing from february 2001 to january 2002; and vice president, business development for potomac federal, the ge capital federal financing investment bank from may 1998 to january 2001. karen l. parkhill , age 50, joined the company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in june 2016. from 2011 to 2016, ms. parkhill served as vice chairman and chief financial officer of comerica incorporated. ms. parkhill was a member of comerica's management executive committee and the comerica bank board of directors. prior to joining comerica, ms. parkhill worked for j.p. morgan chase &amp; co. in various capacities from 1992 to 2011, including serving as chief financial officer of the commercial banking business from 2007 to 2011. ms. parkhill is also a current member of the board of directors for the methodist health system in dallas. carol a. surface , age 50, has been senior vice president and chief human resources officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since september 2013. prior to that, she was the executive vice president and chief human resources officer at best buy co., inc. from march 2010 to september 2013, and held a series of hr leadership roles at pepsico inc., from may 2000 to march 2010. robert ten hoedt , age 55, has been executive vice president and president, emea of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since may 2014. prior to that, he was senior vice president and president, emea and canada from 2009 to 2014; vice president cardiovascular europe and central asia from 2006 to 2009; vice president and general manager, vitatron from 1999 to 2006; gastro-uro leader from 1994 to 1999; and marketing manager, neurological from 1991 to 1994. item 1a. risk factors investing in us involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. each of the following risks should be carefully considered. based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. however, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones related to our businesses and are not necessarily listed in the order of their importance. additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. risks relating to the company we operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. in the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our products or proposed products less competitive. in addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. 16 table of contents competitive factors include: product reliability, product performance, product technology, product quality, breadth of product lines, product services, customer support, price, and reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers. we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. in addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patient protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. these companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products; reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in our industry. in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success in our industry. reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply or other manufacturing difficulties, may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. the manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. we manufacture most of our products at numerous manufacturing facilities located throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. however, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. in addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the u.s. fda regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. a reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and to make our related product sales. other problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. in addition, several of our key products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of such facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at the previous levels or at all. because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing capacity is lost. moreover, pursuant to the conflict minerals requirements promulgated by the sec as a part of dodd-frank, we are required to report on the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, as well as the process we use to determine the source of such materials. we will continue to incur expenses as we work with our suppliers to evaluate the source of any conflict minerals in our products, and compliance with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of our raw materials. our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater regulation in the future. our medical devices and technologies and our business activities are subject to a complex regime of regulations and an aggressive enforcement environment, including by the u.s. fda, u. s. department of justice, health and human services-office of the 17 table of contents inspector general, and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. these authorities and members of congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. in addition, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with health care providers. as a result, we are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers of value to health care providers licensed by certain states and to all u.s. physicians and u.s. teaching hospitals at the federal level. any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. in addition, we may continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda and comparable agencies outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. even if we are able to obtain such approval or clearance, it may: take a significant amount of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, involve modifications, repairs, or replacements of our products, and result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda regulations. many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the u.s. fda to determine compliance with the u.s. fda's requirements, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. the results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on u.s. fda's form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. since 2009, the u.s. fda has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. the u.s. fda has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-u.s governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the u.s. fda may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u. s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. in addition, the u.s. fda has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. a number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for off-label uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for off-label uses constitute false and fraudulent claims to the government. the failure to comply with off-label promotion restrictions can result in significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. pursuant to dodd-frank, the sec promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. under the rules, we are now required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. as of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2015 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. in addition, we may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that 18 table of contents certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. governmental regulations outside the u.s have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. in the european union, for example, we anticipate a new medical device regulation to be published in 2016, and it is likely to impose additional premarket and postmarket requirements. penalties for a company's non-compliance with governmental regulation could be severe, including fines, revocation or suspension of a company's business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. any governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical equipment and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs, and the health and safety of our employees. our operations involve the use of substances regulated under such laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. if we violate these environmental laws and regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. furthermore, environmental laws outside of the u.s. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. in addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain u.s. federal and state laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. we may in the future be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup based on our past, present or future business activities (including the past activities of companies we have acquired). the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flow. our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid and comparable non-u.s. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. as a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by hhs, including the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) as well as comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services. the principal u.s. federal laws implicated include those that prohibit (i) the filing of false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws, (ii) unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and (iii) health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the stark law. many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. insurance companies can also bring a private cause of action for treble damages against a manufacturer for causing a false claim to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, rico. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. our profitability and international operations are subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the u.s. and around the world. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the u.s. and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce 19 table of contents reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. the laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by cms. any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. we also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation against us can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. at any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, we believe the results associated with any such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, pending patent applications owned by us may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. in addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, goods, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows. quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure and our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. in addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. these problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. due to the strong name recognition of the medtronic and covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. 20 table of contents strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. if we fail to meet these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. our success also depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. if our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. in certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. further, we have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks and any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend. see "our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses." any of the foregoing problems, including product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. health care policy changes, including u.s. health care reform legislation, signed in 2010, may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators, and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the u.s. health care system. certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. the adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010 provide for a number of healthcare policy changes that are or will be applicable to us. however, certain provisions of the law are not yet effective and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impacts will be from the law. the legislation provides for significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3 percent excise tax on all u.s. medical device sales that commenced in january 2013. although the excise tax has been suspended by congress until the end of 2017, its status is unclear for 2018 and subsequent years. under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry is expected to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. the law also focuses on a number of medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. it is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. the medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for medicare payments to hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in medicare spending. we cannot predict what health care programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. however, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. we continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with a third party insurer that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the company. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. if we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer. we may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates, and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. if the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 21 table of contents we may experience higher costs to produce our products as a result of changes in prices for oil, gas and other commodities. we use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products. prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. oil, gas and pulp prices are volatile and may increase, resulting in higher costs to produce and distribute our products. new laws or regulations adopted in response to climate change could also increase energy costs and the costs of certain raw materials and components. due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost-containment efforts of our customers and third-party payers, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. if we are unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. economic and political instability around the world could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. there can be no assurance that economic and political instability around the world will not adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. our customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. as with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. in addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. in light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located outside the u.s. failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to a variety of market and financial risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results. although our stock is traded on the new york stock exchange, we are a global company. operations in countries outside of the u.s., which account for approximately 43 percent of our net sales for the fiscal year ended april 29, 2016, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks that would not be faced by a company operating purely within the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the u.s., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates, healthcare reform legislation, multiple non-u.s. regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, local product preferences and product requirements, longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s., trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the u.s. than exists in the u.s., different labor regulations and workforce instability, political instability, the potential payment of u.s. income taxes on earnings of certain controlled foreign subsidiaries subject to u.s. taxation upon repatriation, the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. there are recent legislative proposals to tax profits of u.s. affiliates which are earned abroad. while it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are subject to u.s. income tax, or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (u.k.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and e.u. countries and increased regulatory complexities. these changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. 22 table of contents finally, changes in currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the u.s, net of expenses, and cash flows. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. the failure to comply with u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdiction could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. it is our policy to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements and prohibit improper practices. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. in addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire. any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. laws and regulations governing the export of our products could adversely impact our business. the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac), and the bureau of industry and security at the u.s. department of commerce (bis), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict u.s. persons and, in some instances, non-u.s. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to u.s. economic sanctions. due to our international operations, we are subject to such laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including iran, sudan, syria, cuba and those in the region of crimea. certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices and surgical tools, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. these business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. in response to a variety of actions by legislators, regulators, and third party payers to reduce the perceived rise in healthcare costs, many health care industry companies, including health care systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. as the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. these industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. if we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the health care industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows would suffer. our business is indirectly subject to health care industry cost-containment measures that could result in reduced sales of medical devices and medical devices containing our components. most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. the continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. if third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce 23 table of contents or eliminate purchases of our components. the cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the u.s. and internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. for example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. in an effort to reduce costs, many existing and potential customers for our products within the u.s. have become members of group purchase organizations (gpos) and integrated delivery networks (idns). gpos and idns negotiate pricing arrangement with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. gpos and idns typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. due to the highly competitive nature of the gpo and idn contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major gpos and idns across our product portfolio. furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. while having a contract with a gpo and idn for a given product category can facilitate sales to members of that gpo or idn, such contract positions can offer no assurance that sales volumes of those products will be maintained. gpos and idns increasingly are awarding contracts to multiple suppliers for the same product category. even when we are the sole contracted supplier of a gpo or idn for a certain product category, members of the gpo or idn generally are free to purchase from other suppliers. furthermore, gpo and idn contracts typically are terminable without cause upon 60 to 90 days' notice. accordingly, although we have multiple contracts with many major gpos and idns, the members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. the rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. in addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. we expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. the continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. the research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. if we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business and many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology. if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our systems and data, if our products and services do not operate as intended, or we experience a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems or products, our business could be materially affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations, and routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary or confidential information. in addition, many of our products and services incorporate software and information technology that allows patients and physicians to be connected or to collect data regarding a patient and the therapy he or she is receiving. 24 table of contents the size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks, breakdown, destruction, loss or compromise of data, obsolescence or incompatibility among systems, or other significant disruption including power outages and telecommunications failures. unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties. if third parties successfully hack into or interfere with our implanted or connected products or services, they may create issues with product functionality that could pose a risk of loss of data, a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity. we have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents, and we make ongoing improvements to our information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when and if they occur. we also rely on third party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. third party systems may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems. in addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions. with this growth we will continue to consolidate and integrate the number of systems we operate, and to upgrade and expand our information system capabilities for stable and secure business operations. if we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems and prevent data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences. our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to data protection and cyber security laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, and that some of the data we process, store and transmit may be transmitted across countries. in the u.s., hipaa privacy and security rules require certain of our operations to protect the confidentiality of patient medical records and other health information, and the federal trade commission has begun to assert authority over protection of privacy and the use of cyber security in information systems, particularly in the area of online communications and mobile healthcare applications, in which we have a growing presence. in europe, the general data protection regulation requires us to manage individually identifiable information in the e.u. and, in the event of violations, may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue. china and russia have also passed laws that require individually identifiable data on their citizens to be maintained on local servers and that may restrict transfer or processing of that data. we believe that we meet the expectations of applicable regulations and that the ongoing costs and impacts of ensuring compliance with such rules are not material to our business. however, there is no guarantee that we will avoid enforcement actions by governmental bodies. enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. in addition, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies. while medtronic has not been named in any such suits, if a substantial breach or loss of data from our records were to occur, we could become a target of such litigation. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could expose patients or employees to financial or medical identity theft, suffer a loss of product functionality, lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences including legal action and damage to our reputation. negative conditions in global credit markets may impair our ability to issue debt securities, including our commercial paper program and the liquidity and/or market value of investments in marketable debt securities such as our other fixed income securities, which may cause us losses and liquidity issues. we have investments in marketable debt securities that are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. our debt securities include government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, debt funds, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. market conditions over the past several years have included periods of significant economic uncertainty and at times general market distress. during these periods, we may experience reduced liquidity across the fixed-income investment market, including the securities in which we invest. in the event we need to sell these securities, we may not 25 table of contents be able to do so in a timely manner or for a value that is equal to the underlying principal. in addition, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. if we determine that the fair value of such securities is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment as a component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within shareholders' equity. if it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in our consolidated statements of earnings, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. negative market conditions may also impair our ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of commercial paper or debt securities, or may impact our ability to sell such securities at a reasonable price and may negatively impact our ability to borrow from financial institutions. our products are continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market's or u.s. fda's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years, including the 2015 acquisition of covidien, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. these efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential liability imposed by fcpa, any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, our ability to retain key employees, and the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. we also could experience negative effects on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. these effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. the expansion of our services and solutions business may not yield the revenue we expect and will expose us to new risks. we are increasingly focusing on our services and solutions businesses and the creation of comprehensive value-based healthcare offerings, in which payment is based on measurable patient outcomes over a specific time horizon. these offerings include care management services, cath lab and operating room managed services, and solutions for chronic disease management. we intend to expand our services and solutions model across all of our business groups and across geographic regions. however, we remain in the relatively early stages of developing and implementing this business model. as a result, we will need to invest significant expense and management resources into developing our expertise and executing our strategies, and our efforts may not be profitable. 26 table of contents in addition, the expansion of our services and solutions business model will expose us to, or increase our exposure to, a variety of regulations in the various countries we provide services and solutions, including regulations related to government payments, fraud and abuse, patient privacy, and the corporate practice of medicine. compliance with these regulations may prove to be more costly than we anticipate, and we may not successfully comply with such regulations. these regulatory costs may slow our expansion into these business areas and may have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. the medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. these investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to rigorous regulation by the u.s. fda and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. these authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the u.s. department of justice and the office of inspector general of hhs. these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance, and product promotional practices. we cooperate with these investigations and respond to such requests. however, when an investigation begins, we cannot predict when it will be resolved, the outcome of the investigation, or its impact on us. an adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, entry into corporate integrity agreements (cias) with governmental agencies and amendments to existing cias. in addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by a government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. as of april 29, 2016, our total consolidated external debt was approximately $31.2 billion. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various jurisdictions outside the u.s. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, legislation in 2010 imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical device manufacturers for u.s. sales of medical devices beginning in january 2013. proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents medtronic, inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. in march 2009, the irs issued its audit report for medtronic inc.'s fiscal years 2005 and 2006. medtronic, inc. reached agreements with the irs on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. on december 23, 2010, the irs issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to the remaining issues. medtronic, inc. filed a petition with the u.s. tax court on march 21, 2011 objecting to the deficiency. during october and november 2012, medtronic, inc. reached a resolution with the irs on various matters, including the deductibility of a settlement payment. medtronic, inc. and the irs agreed to hold one issue, the calculation of amounts eligible for the one-time repatriation holiday, because such issue was being addressed by other taxpayers in litigation with the irs. the remaining unresolved issue relates to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico, which is one of the company's key manufacturing sites. the tax court proceeding with respect to this issue began on february 3, 2015 and ended on march 12, 2015. the u.s. tax court issued its opinion on june 9, 2016. the u.s. tax court generally rejected the irs's position, but also made certain modifications to the medtronic, inc. tax returns as filed. final resolution of this matter is not expected until the end of calendar 2016 or later if the tax court opinion is appealed. examination and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our and covidien's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. the company has provided reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the company's estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges to expense and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the distribution of mallinckrodt ordinary shares to covidien shareholders in 2013, or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2013 separation, are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. covidien received an irs ruling substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, (i) certain transactions effected in connection with its 2013 separation of mallinckrodt qualify as transactions under sections 355 and/or 368(a) of the code, and (ii) the distribution qualifies as a transaction under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. in addition to obtaining the irs ruling, covidien received a tax opinion from skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom llp, in form and substance acceptable to covidien, which relied on the effectiveness of the irs ruling, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distribution and certain transactions entered into in connection with the distribution qualify as transactions under sections 355 and/or 368(a) of the code. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings in the case of the 2013 separation, from covidien and mallinckrodt, regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the tax opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the 2013 distribution or the related internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the respective facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distributions, or if the irs were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinions that are not covered by the irs rulings. we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities or tax indemnification obligations, whether under applicable law or the tax matters agreement that was entered into with mallinckrodt, if it is ultimately determined that certain related transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2013 distribution are taxable. our tax position may be adversely affected by changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations. recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, limit the ability of foreign-owned corporations to deduct interest expense, tax the accumulated unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries of u.s. corporations, impose a minimum tax on the future offshore earnings of u.s. multinational groups, and to make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations. additionally, the u.s. congress, government agencies in non-u.s. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business, and the organisation for economic co-operation and development have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting, where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. the organisation for economic co-operation and development has released several components of its 28 table of contents comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the u.s., ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business. moreover, tax authorities may carefully scrutinize companies that result from a cross-border business combination (such as us), which may lead such authorities to assert that we owe additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. a transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the depository trust company, may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company (dtc) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold our shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. the potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of your shares. in certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and other specified countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through dtc will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. shareholders entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with ireland other than their shareholding in our company (for example, they are resident in ireland). shareholders who receive dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends. our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax (cat) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold which irish revenue typically updates annually in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. 29 table of contents risks relating to the covidien acquisition (the transaction) we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transactions or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating medtronic, inc. and covidien. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the medtronic, inc. and covidien businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of medtronic, inc. and covidien. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the transaction. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of the businesses of medtronic, inc. and covidien are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of medtronic, inc. and covidien. all of these factors could negatively impact our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. as a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the medtronic, inc. and covidien businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction. future potential changes to the u.s. tax laws could result in us being treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and the irs may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s federal income tax purposes. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. even so, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). under section 7874 of the code, if medtronic inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the transaction hold 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction does not have substantial business activities in ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. based on the rules for determining share ownership under section 7874 of the code, medtronic, inc.'s shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. therefore, under current law, we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. in addition, changes to section 7874 or the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder could affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application. since section 7874 was enacted, there have been various legislative proposals to broaden its scope. such proposals could, among other things, treat a foreign acquiring corporation as a u.s. corporation under section 7874 if the former shareholders of the u.s. corporation own more than 50% of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the transaction, or if the foreign corporation's affiliated group has substantial business activities in the u.s. and the foreign corporation is primarily managed and controlled in 30 table of contents the u.s. accordingly, if enacted in their present form and retroactively effective to apply to the transactions, such proposals could cause us to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, based on our existing expected cash flows, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. specifically, if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, we would be subject to u.s. corporate income tax on our worldwide income, and the income of our foreign subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. tax when repatriated or when deemed recognized under the u.s. tax rules for controlled foreign corporations (cfc's). additionally, covidien's foreign corporations, which are not currently cfc's, would become cfc's making them potentially subject to current or future u.s. taxation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the u.s. treasury department and the irs may promulgate rules that would adversely affect our tax position. the u.s. treasury department has announced that it is examining possible changes in the regulatory rules affecting companies that move their tax domicile outside the u.s. in the event the u.s. treasury department and the irs were to change the applicable regulatory rules, we could face potentially substantial tax costs as a result of the transactions. we are unable to assess the potential impact of any such possible changes, if adopted, until they are announced. on september 22, 2014, the u.s. treasury department and the irs issued new guidance announcing their intention to issue regulations interpreting multiple sections of the code, including section 7874, to address inversion transactions and transactions that treasury and the irs characterize as post-inversion tax avoidance transactions (the irs notice). when issued, such regulations would apply to transactions completed on or after september 22, 2014. the regulations described in the irs notice would expand the set of circumstances under which section 7874 applies to cause the foreign acquirer of a u.s. corporation to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. such regulations would also impose additional u.s. taxes on certain transactions involving the acquired u.s. corporation's cfc's. the regulations interpreting section 7874 of the code announced in the irs notice are not expected to cause us to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, if ultimately upheld by a reviewing court, the regulations announced in the irs notice would be expected to limit our ability to engage in various intercompany transactions involving non-u.s. subsidiaries. in addition, in the irs notice, the u.s. treasury department and the irs announced their intention to issue additional guidance in the future intended to restrict our ability to undertake certain transactions which could reduce our u.s. tax liability. according to the irs notice, such guidance may include, among other things, limitations on our ability to deduct interest on certain intercompany debt for u.s federal income tax purposes. we are unable to predict the likelihood that any such guidance will be issued, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated thereunder or the effect such guidance may have on our business. the transaction may not allow us to maintain competitive global cash management and a competitive effective corporate tax rate. while we believe that being incorporated in ireland should help us maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate and provide flexible global cash management, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate nor global cash accessibility will be, however, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we will operate. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate or global cash accessibility. legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of u.s. federal or state governmental contracts to u.s. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk currency exchange rate risk due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes. in a period where the u.s. dollar is strengthening/weakening as compared to other currencies, our revenues and expenses denominated in other currencies are translated into u.s. dollars at a lower/higher value than they would be in an otherwise constant currency exchange rate environment. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows. in order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. these contracts are designed to hedge anticipated currency transactions and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. at inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. the primary currencies of the derivative instruments are the euro and japanese yen. fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. we do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes. the gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at april 29, 2016 and april 24, 2015 was $10.8 billion and $9.8 billion, respectively. at april 29, 2016 , these contracts were in an unrealized loss position of $11 million. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at april 29, 2016 indicates that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase/decrease by approximately $725 million. any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. these offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our short-term investments and our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. our debt portfolio as of april 29, 2016 , was comprised of debt predominately denominated in u.s. dollars, of which approximately 90% is fixed rate debt and approximately 10% is floating-rate debt. we are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements, and forward starting interest rate swap agreements. a sensitivity analysis of the impact on our investments in interest rate sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, compared to interest rates as of april 29, 2016 , indicates that the fair value of these instruments would correspondingly change by $85 million. for a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional discussion of market risk, see notes 5 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors - failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business," and "item 1a. risk factors - we may not complete the planned disposition of the patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses within the patient monitoring &amp; recovery division of our minimally invasive therapies group on the anticipated timeline or at all, and, even if completed, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipate." acquisition of heartware international, inc. on august 23, 2016, the cardiac and vascular group acquired heartware international, inc. (heartware), a medical device company that develops and manufactures miniaturized implantable heart pumps, or ventricular assist devices, to treat patients around the world suffering from advanced heart failure. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $1.1 billion . based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, we acquired $602 million of technology-based and customer-related intangible assets and $23 million of tradenames, and $427 million of goodwill. in addition, we acquired $245 million of debt through the acquisition, of which we redeemed $203 million as part of a cash tender offer in august 2016. the remaining $42 million of debt acquired is due december 2017. acquisition of smith &amp; nephew's gynecology business on august 5, 2016, the minimally invasive therapies group acquired smith &amp; nephew's gynecology business, which expands and strengthens our minimally invasive surgical offerings and further complements its existing global gynecology business. total consideration for the transaction was approximately $350 million . we acquired $167 million of customer-related and technology-related intangible assets and $180 million of goodwill. anticipated divestiture of patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses on april 18, 2017, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement with cardinal health inc. to sell the patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses within the pmr division of our minimally invasive therapies group. among the product lines included in the transaction are the dental/animal health, chart paper, wound care, incontinence, electrodes, sharpsafety, thermometry, perinatal protection, blood collection, compression, and enteral feeding offerings. the transaction also will include 17 dedicated manufacturing facilities. we will retain our respiratory &amp; monitoring solutions business, which includes airway, ventilators, monitors, sensors, and health informatics product lines, as well as our renal care solutions business, both of which are within the pmr division. the transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. under the terms of the 7 table of contents definitive agreement, we will receive $6.1 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments, with total after-tax proceeds estimated to be approximately $5.5 billion. patents and licenses we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. we have filed and obtained numerous patents in the u.s. and abroad, and regularly file patent applications worldwide in our continuing effort to establish and protect our proprietary technology. u.s. patents typically have a 20-year term from the application date while patent protection outside the u.s. varies from country to country. in addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses relating to a wide array of third-party technologies. we have also obtained certain trademarks and tradenames for our products to distinguish our genuine products from our competitors' products, and we maintain certain details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade secrets. in the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to any segment of our business as a whole. our efforts to protect our intellectual property and avoid disputes over proprietary rights have included ongoing review of third-party patents and patent applications. for additional information see item 1a. risk factors - we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. markets and distribution methods we sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the u.s. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the u.s. for certain portions of our business, we also sell through distributors in the u.s. our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, gpos and integrated delivery networks (idns) primarily through third-party distributors, although we also have direct sales representatives. we often negotiate with gpos and idns, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. our three largest markets are the u.s., western europe, and japan. emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity, as we believe they remain under-penetrated. our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide - including physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions, and gpos. to achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. this focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. we believe that we maintain excellent working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic developments, trends, and emerging opportunities and respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and patients. we attempt to enhance our presence in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. we believe that these activities contribute to physician expertise. in keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. this enhanced purchasing power may lead to pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. our customer base continues to evolve to reflect such economic changes across the geographic markets we serve. we are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales. competition and industry we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. our product lines face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. in addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. in addition, in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, 8 table of contents incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products. worldwide operations our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country. currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect revenues, earnings, and cash flows from operations. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, the repatriation of earnings of certain subsidiaries outside the u.s. may result in substantial u.s. tax cost. for financial reporting purposes, net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. production and availability of raw materials we manufacture products at manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. due to the u.s. fda's requirements regarding manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our operations. we have reporting and disclosure requirements related to the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. pursuant to these requirements, we are required to report on form sd the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. as of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2016 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. we may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. for additional information related to our manufacturing facilities refer to "item 2. properties" in this annual report on form 10-k. working capital practices our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to meet the product delivery needs of our customers. we also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. employees on april 28, 2017 , we employed more than 91,000 full-time employees. our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment. seasonality worldwide sales do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality; however, the number of medical procedures incorporating medtronic products is generally lower during summer months, due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in european countries. in addition, pulse oximetry sales may be impacted by flu season. 9 table of contents government regulation and other considerations our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda and similar agencies outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. our business is also affected by patient privacy laws, cost containment initiatives and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. the primary laws and regulations that affect our business are described below. product approval processes authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device or technology in the u.s. is generally received in one of two ways. the first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device or technology is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device or technology. in this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. if human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with u.s. fda investigational device exemption regulations. we must receive an order from the u.s. fda finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device or technology before we are able to commercially distribute the new medical device or technology. modifications to cleared medical devices or technologies may be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. minimally invasive therapies group products are generally subject to the pre-market notification process. a very small number of our devices are exempt from pre-market review. the second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (pma), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective. we do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. the u.s. fda will authorize commercial distribution if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective. this determination is based on the benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the device. this process is much more detailed, time-consuming, and expensive than the 510(k) process. a third, seldom used, process for approval exists for humanitarian use devices, intended for patient populations of less than 4,000 patients per year in the u.s. this exemption is similar to the pma process; however, a full showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. the threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety. many countries outside the u.s. to which we sell medical devices also subject such medical devices and technologies to their own regulatory requirements. frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a country outside of the u.s. prior to application in the u.s. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, some countries, such as china for example, require approval in the country of origin first. most countries outside of the u.s. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. the recertification process requires that we evaluate any device or technology changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device or technology and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. because export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations are complex and constantly changing, it is possible that laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our ability to sell or distribute products. in the e.u., a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the ce mark. to obtain a ce mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. a notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. we are subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. the competent authorities of the e.u. countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. we are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws transcribing the medical device directives. a new medical device regulation has been published by the e.u. in 2017 which will impose significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements. the regulation has a three-year implementation period, and after that time all products marketed in the e.u. will require certification according to these new requirements. to be sold in japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or shonin. the japanese government, through the ministry of health, labour, and welfare (mhlw), regulates medical devices under the pharmaceutical affairs law (pal). oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the pharmaceutical and medical devices agency (pmda), a quasi-government organization performing many of the review functions for mhlw. penalties for a company's noncompliance with pal could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. mhlw and pmda also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the requirements of the pal. medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies. 10 table of contents our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on existing regulations. certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. while harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. we expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future. there may be no assurance that any new medical devices we develop will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all. ongoing u.s. fda regulations both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda regulations. the u.s. fda reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. we are also subject to periodic inspection by the u.s. fda for compliance with the u.s. fda's quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. in addition, the u.s. fda and other u.s. regulatory bodies (including the federal trade commission, the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, the u.s. department of justice, and various state attorneys general) monitor the manner in which we promote and advertise our products. although surgeons are permitted to use their medical judgment to employ medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the u.s. fda, the u.s. fda has prohibited manufacturers from promoting products for such off-label uses, and has taken the position that manufacturers may only market their products for cleared or approved uses. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, or ban such medical devices. the u.s. fda may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, including a hold on approving new devices until issues are resolved to its satisfaction, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u. s. department of justice. conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct. in april 2015, we entered into a consent decree with the u.s. fda relating to our pain therapies division's synchromed drug infusion system and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree requires us to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the synchromed pump and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree limits our ability to manufacture and distribute the synchromed drug infusion system, unless specific conditions are met. the agreement does not require the retrieval of any of our products, but we must retain a third-party expert to inspect the neuromodulation quality system and to provide a certification that the system complies with the requirements of the consent decree. once this certification is accepted by the u.s. fda, and a u.s. fda inspection is successfully completed, the limitations on manufacturer and distribution of synchromed pumps will be lifted. thereafter, we must submit periodic audit reports to the u.s. fda to ensure ongoing compliance with the consent decree. in june 2016, tyrx, inc. received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the tyrx facility in monmouth junction, new jersey. we are taking action to address the warning letter and upon successful reinspection by the u.s. fda, the warning letter will be lifted. in june 2014, heartware inc. received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the heartware facility in miami lakes, florida. medtronic acquired heartware in august 2016, and is implementing actions and process improvements to address the items in the warning letter. upon successful reinspection by fda, the warning letter will be lifted. 11 table of contents governmental trade regulations the sale and shipment of our products and services across borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from different countries, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. a variety of laws and regulations in the countries in which we transact business apply to the sale, shipment, and provision of goods, services and technology across borders. because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties, or liabilities. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import and export activities. the u.s. fda, in cooperation with u.s. customs and border protection (cbp), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the u.s. the cbp imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. medtronic is also subject to foreign trade controls administered by several u.s. government agencies, including the bureau of industry and security within the commerce department and the office of foreign assets control within the treasury department. we import raw materials, components and finished products into the countries in which we transact business. we act as the importer of record in many instances, but we also sell and ship goods to third parties who are themselves responsible for complying with applicable trade laws and regulations. in our role as importer of record, we are directly responsible for complying with customs laws and regulations concerning the importation of our raw materials, components and finished products. if applicable government agencies were to determine that we or such third parties were not in compliance with applicable u.s. fda or customs laws and regulations when engaging in cross-border transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, depending on the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. in addition, such determinations may cause supply chain disruptions and delays in the distribution of our products that impact our business activities. many countries control the export and re-export of goods, technology and services for reasons including public health, national security, regional stability, antiterrorism policies and other reasons. in certain circumstances, approval from governmental authorities may be required before goods, technology or services are exported or re-exported to certain destinations, to certain end-users and for certain end-uses. in addition, sales of our medical devices to customers outside of the u.s. for medical devices that have not received u.s. fda approval are subject to u.s. fda export requirements. some governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. in addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct export activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. if applicable government agencies were to determine that we, or the third parties through which we export goods, were not in compliance with applicable export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations when engaging in transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. similarly, such determinations may cause disruption or delays in the distribution and sales of our products, or result in restrictions being placed upon our distribution and sales of products which may materially impact our business activities. anti-boycott laws under u.s. laws and regulations, u.s. companies and their controlled-in-fact subsidiaries and affiliates outside the u.s are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the u.s. or between the u.s. and countries outside of the u.s. currently, the u.s. considers the arab league boycott of israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott. we are responsible for ensuring we comply with the requirements of u.s. anti-boycott laws for all transactions in which we are involved. if we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, are determined to have violated u.s. anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. penalties for any violations of anti-boycott laws and regulations could include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, loss of export privileges and the denial of certain tax benefits, including foreign tax credits, and outside u.s subsidiary deferrals. data privacy and security laws and regulations as a business with a significant global footprint, compliance with evolving regulations and standards in data privacy and cybersecurity (relating to the confidentiality and security of our information technology systems, products such as medical devices, and other services provided by us) may result in increased costs, lower revenue, new complexities in compliance, new challenges for competition, and the threat of increased regulatory enforcement activity. our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including personal information, protected health information, financial information, intellectual property, and other sensitive information related to our customers and workforce. 12 table of contents for example, in the u.s. the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of certain personal information and the security of medical devices are regulated at the u.s. federal and state, international and industry levels. u.s. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. privacy and security rules under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), as amended, and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act of 2009 (hitech), govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by covered entities, (which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses) and by their business associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the covered entity's workforce). rules under hipaa and hitech include specific security standards and breach notification requirements. u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) (through the office of civil rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to both the security and privacy rules, including civil and criminal liability. medtronic is generally not a covered entity, with a few exceptions such as our diabetes business, medtronic monitoring, inc., beacon idtf, and our health insurance plans. medtronic also operates as a business associate to covered entities in a limited number of instances. in those cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may include protected health information. there are comparable state level laws governing the use and protection of personal health information by health care providers, and medtronic may be subject to these laws in certain of its businesses. the u.s. fda has issued guidance advising manufacturers to take cybersecurity risks into account in product design for connected medical devices and systems, to assure that appropriate safeguards are in place to reduce the risk of unauthorized access or modification to medical devices that contain software and reduce the risk of introducing threats into hospital systems that are connected to such devices. the u.s. fda also issued guidance on post market management of cyber security in medical devices. in addition to the regulation of personal health information, a number of states have also adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and data security practices for other kinds of personally identifiable information, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of sensitive personal information such as social security numbers or that are designed to protect credit card account data. state and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with 48 u.s. states now enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. state consumer protection laws may also establish privacy and security standards for use and management of personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. outside the u.s., we are impacted by the privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. we serve customers in approximately 160 countries. legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, handling and transfer of personal data and potentially intellectual property continue to evolve with increasingly strict enforcement regimes. more privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. in the e.u., increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules that will have substantial impact on the use of patient data across the healthcare industry are scheduled to go into effect in may 2018. these laws and regulations impact the ways in which we use and manage personal data, protected health information, and our information technology systems. they also impact our ability to move, store, and access data across geographic boundaries. compliance with these requirements may require changes in business practices, complicate our operations, and add complexity and additional management and oversight needs. they also may complicate our clinical research activities, as well as product offerings that involve transmission or use of clinical data. because the laws and regulations continue to expand, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and are subject to evolving (and at times inconsistent) governmental interpretation, compliance with these laws and regulations may require significant cost expenditures or changes in products or business that reduce revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop noncompliant activities. cost containment initiatives government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the u.s. these changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. government programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, creating centralized purchasing functions that set pricing and in some cases limiting the number of vendors that may participate 13 table of contents in the purchasing program. hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians' collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. this has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. in addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms in markets significant to medtronic's business outside of the u.s. include japan, where the government reviews reimbursement rate benchmarks every two years, which may significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for those procedures. as a result of our manufacturing efficiencies, cost controls and other cost-savings initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation, new or changed coverage and reimbursement from government or private payers or decisions, or other reforms, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results. regulations governing reimbursement the delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by hhs and comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. u.s. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the medicare and medicaid programs, as well as the government's interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. other governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. u.s. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under medicare, medicaid, or other federally-funded health care programs. the principal u.s. federal laws include: (1) the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of purchasing, ordering, recommending making referrals to items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program; (2) the false claims act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded health care program, including claims resulting from a violation of the anti-kickback statute; (3) the stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring medicare or medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer. there are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. insurance companies may also bring a private cause of action for treble damages against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, or rico. in addition, as a manufacturer the u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. further, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) may be used to prosecute companies in the u.s. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the u.s. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. the laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil financial penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by medicare or medicaid. any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. our profitability and operations are subject to risks relating to changes in legislative, regulatory and reimbursement policies and decisions as well as changes to private payer reimbursement coverage and payment decisions and policies. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. 14 table of contents environmental health and safety laws we are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the u.s. similar to other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. to the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. litigation risks patent litigation we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation may result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. at any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. product liability and other claims we operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. these claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. we are also susceptible to other litigation, including private securities litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation. these claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of product liability litigation, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors - quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, products, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm to our reputation, or adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. insurance we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks, and we made this decision based on costs and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we continue to maintain a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy providing coverage for our directors and officers. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. based on historical loss trends, we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses. historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. executive officers of medtronic set forth below are the names and ages of current section 16(b) executive officers of medtronic, as well as information regarding their positions with medtronic, their periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. there are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. omar ishrak , age 61, has been chairman and chief executive officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since june 2011. prior to that, mr. ishrak served as president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare systems, a division of ge healthcare, from 2009 to 2011. prior to that, mr. ishrak was president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare clinical systems from 2005 to 2008 and president and chief executive officer of ge healthcare ultrasound and bmd from 1995 to 2004. michael j. coyle, age 55, has been executive vice president and group president, cardiac and vascular group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since december 2009. prior to that, he served as president of the cardiac rhythm management division at st. jude from 2001 to 2007, and prior positions included serving st. jude as president of the company's daig catheter division and numerous leadership positions at eli lilly &amp; company. hooman c. hakami , age 47, has been executive vice president and group president, diabetes group of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since june 2014. prior to that, he was president and chief executive officer of detection 15 table of contents and guidance solutions at ge healthcare from april 2012 to may 2014. prior to that, he served as president and chief executive officer of interventional systems from july 2009 to april 2012; global business transformation leader for ge healthcare from december 2008 to july 2009; and vice president and general manager, global ultrasound services from june 2004 to december 2008. mr. hakami started his career with ge and has held the following financial roles: chief financial officer for the global ultrasound division from 2001 to 2004; chief financial officer for clinical and multi-vendor services from 1999 to 2001; as well as various finance roles at ge capital from 1994 to 1999; ge's aerospace division from 1992 to 1994 and ge power systems from 1991 to 1992. bryan c. hanson , age 50, has been executive vice president and group president, minimally invasive therapies group of the company since february 2015. prior to that, he was senior vice president and group president, covidien since october 2014; senior vice president and group president, medical devices and united states of covidien from october 2013 to september 2014; senior vice president and group president of covidien for the surgical solutions business from july 2011 to october 2013; and president of covidien's energy-based devices business from july 2006 to june 2011. mr. hanson held several other positions of increasing responsibility in sales, marketing and general management with covidien from october 1992 to july 2006. richard kuntz, m.d., age 60, has been senior vice president and chief scientific, clinical and regulatory officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since august 2009. prior to that, he was senior vice president and president, neuromodulation from october 2005 to august 2009; and prior to that, he was an interventional cardiologist and chief of the division of clinical biometrics at brigham and women's hospital and associate professor of medicine and chief scientific officer of the harvard clinical research institute. bradley e. lerman , age 60, has been senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since may 2014. prior to that, he was executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary at federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) from october 2012 to may 2014; senior vice president and chief litigation counsel at pfizer, inc. from january 2009 to september 2012; partner at winston &amp; strawn from august 1998 to january 2009; partner at kirkland &amp; ellis from march 1996 to july 1998; associate independent counsel from october 1994 to march 1996; and assistant u.s. attorney in the northern district of illinois from february 1986 to september 1994. geoffrey s. martha , age 47, has been executive vice president and president, restorative therapies group since june 2015. mr. martha previously served as senior vice president of strategy and business development of the company beginning in january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. beginning in august 2011. prior to that, he served as managing director of business development at ge healthcare from april 2007 to july 2011; general manager for ge capital technology finance services from november 2003 to march 2007; senior vice president, business development for ge capital vendor financial services from february 2002 to october 2003; general manager for ge capital colonial pacific leasing from february 2001 to january 2002; and vice president, business development for potomac federal, the ge capital federal financing investment bank from may 1998 to january 2001. karen l. parkhill , age 51, joined the company as executive vice president and chief financial officer in june 2016. from 2011 to 2016, ms. parkhill served as vice chairman and chief financial officer of comerica incorporated. ms. parkhill was a member of comerica's management executive committee and the comerica bank board of directors. prior to joining comerica, ms. parkhill worked for j.p. morgan chase &amp; co. in various capacities from 1992 to 2011, including serving as chief financial officer of the commercial banking business from 2007 to 2011. ms. parkhill is also a current member of the board of directors for the methodist health system in dallas. carol a. surface , age 51, has been senior vice president and chief human resources officer of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since september 2013. prior to that, she was the executive vice president and chief human resources officer at best buy co., inc. from march 2010 to september 2013, and held a series of hr leadership roles at pepsico inc., from may 2000 to march 2010. robert ten hoedt , age 56, has been executive vice president and president, emea of the company since january 2015 and of medtronic, inc. since may 2014. prior to that, he was senior vice president and president, emea and canada from 2009 to 2014; vice president cardiovascular europe and central asia from 2006 to 2009; vice president and general manager, vitatron from 1999 to 2006; gastro-uro leader from 1994 to 1999; and marketing manager, neurological from 1991 to 1994. item 1a. risk factors investing in us involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. each of the following risks should be carefully considered. based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us. however, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones related to our businesses and are not necessarily listed in the order of their importance. additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. 16 table of contents risks relating to the company we operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. in the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our products or proposed products less competitive. in addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. competitive factors include: product reliability, product performance, product technology, product quality, breadth of product lines, product services, customer support, price, and reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers. we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. in addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patient protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. these companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products; reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in our industry. in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success in our industry. reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply or other manufacturing difficulties, may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. the manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. we manufacture most of our products at numerous manufacturing facilities located throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. however, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. in addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the u.s. fda regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. a reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and to make our related product sales. other problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. a failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in quality or safety issues. in addition, several of our key products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of such facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at 17 table of contents the previous levels or at all. because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing capacity is lost. moreover, pursuant to the conflict minerals requirements promulgated by the sec as a part of dodd-frank, we are required to report on the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, as well as the process we use to determine the source of such materials. we will continue to incur expenses as we work with our suppliers to evaluate the source of any conflict minerals in our products, and compliance with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of our raw materials. our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater regulation in the future. our medical devices and technologies and our business activities are subject to a complex regime of regulations and an aggressive enforcement environment, including by the u.s. fda, u.s. department of justice, health and human services-office of the inspector general, and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. these authorities and members of congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. in addition, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with health care providers. as a result, we are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers of value to health care providers licensed by certain states and to all u.s. physicians and u.s. teaching hospitals at the federal level. any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. in addition, we will continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda and comparable agencies outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. even if we are able to obtain such approval or clearance, it may: take a significant amount of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, involve modifications, repairs, or replacements of our products, and result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda regulations. many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the u.s. fda to determine compliance with the u.s. fda's requirements, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. the results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on u.s. fda's form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. since 2009, the u.s. fda has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-u.s governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the u.s. fda may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u. s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. in addition, the u.s. fda has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. a number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for off-label uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for off-label uses constitute false and fraudulent claims to the government. the failure to 18 table of contents comply with off-label promotion restrictions can result in significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. pursuant to dodd-frank, the sec promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. under the rules, we are now required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. as of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2016 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. in addition, we may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. governmental regulations outside the u.s. have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. in the european union, for example, a new medical device regulation was published in 2017 which, when it enters into full force, will impose significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. penalties for a company's non-compliance with governmental regulation could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company's business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. any governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. our operations involve the use of substances regulated under such laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. if we violate these environmental laws and regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. furthermore, environmental laws outside of the u.s. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. in addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain u.s. federal and state laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. we may in the future be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup based on our past, present or future business activities (including the past activities of companies we have acquired). the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flow. our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid and comparable non-u.s. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. as a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by hhs, including the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms) as well as comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services. the principal u.s. federal laws implicated include those that prohibit (i) the filing of false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws, (ii) unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and (iii) health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who 19 table of contents was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the stark law. many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. insurance companies can also bring a private cause of action claiming treble damages against a manufacturer for causing a false claim to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, rico. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. our profitability and international operations are subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the u.s. and around the world. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the u.s. and outside of the u.s., or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. the laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by cms. any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. we also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation against us can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. at any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, we believe the results associated with any such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, pending patent applications owned by us may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. in addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 table of contents quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, products, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm to our reputation, or adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows. quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure and our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. in addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. these problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. due to the strong name recognition of the medtronic and covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. if we fail to meet these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. our success also depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. if our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. in certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. further, we have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks and any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and resolve. see "our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses." any of the foregoing problems, including product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. health care policy changes, including u.s. health care reform legislation, may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators, and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the u.s. health care system. certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. the adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the patient protection and affordable care act (the aca ) and the health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010 (together "the law" or "the legislation") provide for a number of healthcare policy changes that are or will be applicable to us. however, there are many programs and requirements under the law for which the consequences are not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impacts will ultimately be from the law. the legislation provides for significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3 percent excise tax on all u.s. medical device sales that commenced in january 2013. although the excise tax has been suspended by congress until the end of 2017, its status is unclear for 2018 and subsequent years. under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry is expected to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. the law also focuses on a number of medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. it is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. the medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for medicare payments to hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in medicare spending. currently, the u.s. congress is considering legislation to repeal and replace the aca. we cannot predict whether the aca will be repealed, replaced, or modified or how such repeal, replacement or modification may be timed or structured. as a result, we cannot quantify or predict the effect of such repeal, replacement, or modification might have on our business and results of operations. however, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 21 table of contents our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. we continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with a third party insurer that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the company. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. if we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer. we may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates, and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. if the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. we may experience higher costs to produce our products as a result of changes in prices for oil, gas and other commodities. we use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products. prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. oil, gas and pulp prices are volatile and may increase, resulting in higher costs to produce and distribute our products. new laws or regulations adopted in response to climate change could also increase energy costs and the costs of certain raw materials and components. due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost-containment efforts of our customers and third-party payers, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. if we are unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. economic and political instability around the world could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. there can be no assurance that economic and political instability around the world will not adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. our customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. as with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. in addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. in light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located outside the u.s. failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to a variety of market and financial risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results. although our stock is traded on the new york stock exchange, we are a global company. operations in countries outside of the u.s., which account for approximately 44 percent of our net sales for fiscal year 2017, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks that would not be faced by a company operating purely within the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the u.s., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates, healthcare reform legislation, multiple non-u.s. regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, local product preferences and product requirements, longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s., trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the u.s. than exists in the u.s., 22 table of contents different labor regulations and workforce instability, political instability, the potential payment of u.s. income taxes on earnings of certain controlled foreign subsidiaries subject to u.s. taxation upon repatriation, the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. there are recent legislative proposals to tax profits of u.s. affiliates which are earned abroad. while it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are subject to u.s. income tax, or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom (u.k.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and e.u. countries and increased regulatory complexities. similarly, from time to time proposals are made in the u.s. to significantly change existing trade agreements and relationships between the u.s. and other countries, although we cannot currently predict whether or how these changes will be implemented. changes to trade policy may adversely affect our operations and financial results. finally, changes in currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the u.s, net of expenses, and cash flows. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. the failure to comply with u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdiction could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. it is our policy to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements and prohibit improper practices. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. in addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire. any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. laws and regulations governing the export of our products could adversely impact our business. the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac), and the bureau of industry and security at the u.s. department of commerce (bis), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict u.s. persons and, in some instances, non-u.s. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to u.s. economic sanctions. due to our international operations, we are subject to such laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including iran, sudan, syria, cuba and those in the region of crimea. certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices and surgical tools, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. these business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these 23 table of contents regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. in response to a variety of actions by legislators, regulators, and third party payers to reduce the perceived rise in healthcare costs, many health care industry companies, including health care systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. as the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. these industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. if we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the health care industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows would suffer. our business is indirectly subject to health care industry cost-containment measures that could result in reduced sales of medical devices and medical devices containing our components. most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. the continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. if third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. the cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the u.s. and outside of the u.s., could harm our ability to operate profitably. for example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. in an effort to reduce costs, many existing and potential customers for our products within the u.s. have become members of gpos and idns. gpos and idns negotiate pricing arrangement with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. gpos and idns typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. due to the highly competitive nature of the gpo and idn contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major gpos and idns across our product portfolio. furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. while having a contract with a gpo and idn for a given product category can facilitate sales to members of that gpo or idn, such contract positions can offer no assurance that sales volumes of those products will be maintained. gpos and idns increasingly are awarding contracts to multiple suppliers for the same product category. even when we are the sole contracted supplier of a gpo or idn for a certain product category, members of the gpo or idn generally are free to purchase from other suppliers. furthermore, gpo and idn contracts typically are terminable without cause upon 60 to 90 days' notice. accordingly, although we have multiple contracts with many major gpos and idns, the members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. the rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. in addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. we expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. 24 table of contents the continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. the research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. if we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows. cyber-attacks or other disruptions to our information technology systems could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, and many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology. we rely on information technology systems to collect and process customer orders, manage product manufacturing and shipping, and support regulatory compliance, and we routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information, protected health information, and business information. many of our products and services incorporate software and information technology that allow patients and physicians to be connected and collect data regarding a patient and the therapy he or she is receiving, or that otherwise allow the products or services to operate as intended. we could experience, and in the past have experienced, attempted or actual interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems, as well as data breaches. we could also experience attempted or actual interference with the integrity of our products and data. these incidents could materially harm our business and our reputation. as is the case with other large enterprises, the size and complexity of our products, services, and information technology systems can make them vulnerable to cyber-attacks, breakdown, interruptions, destruction, loss or compromise of data, obsolescence or incompatibility among systems, or other significant disruptions. unauthorized persons may attempt to inappropriately access our products or systems in order to disrupt, disable or degrade such products or services, or to obtain proprietary or confidential information. such unauthorized access or interference with our products or services could create issues with product functionality which could pose a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity. we have programs, processes and technologies in place to prevent, detect, contain, respond to and mitigate security related threats and potential incidents. we undertake considerable ongoing improvements to our systems, connected devices and information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and can be difficult to detect, anticipating, identifying or preventing these intrusions or mitigating them if and when they occur, may be challenging. we also rely on third party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. third party systems may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or unexpectedly compromise the information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to provide reliable systems and software and to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems. in addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions. as a result of acquisitions, we may face risks due to implementation, modification, or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies relating to data privacy and cybersecurity at the acquired company. we continue to consolidate and integrate the number of systems we operate, and to upgrade and expand our information system capabilities for stable and secure business operations. if we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems and prevent disruptions, outages, or data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences. our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cyber security laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. the variety of u.s. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in "item 1. business - other factors impacting our operations - data privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations." we have programs to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there is no guarantee that we will avoid enforcement actions by governmental bodies. enforcement actions may be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. in addition, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber attacks. while medtronic has not been named in any such suits, if a substantial breach or loss of data were to occur, we could become a target of such litigation. 25 table of contents our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, and we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. negative conditions in global credit markets may impair our ability to issue debt securities and impact the liquidity and/or market value of investments in marketable debt securities, which may cause us losses and liquidity issues. we have investments in marketable debt securities that are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. our debt securities include government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, debt funds, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. market conditions over the past several years have included periods of significant economic uncertainty and at times general market distress. during these periods, we may experience reduced liquidity across the fixed-income investment market, including the securities in which we invest. in the event we need to sell these securities, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner or for a value that is equal to the underlying principal. in addition, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. if we determine that the fair value of such securities is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment as a component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within shareholders' equity. if it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in our consolidated statements of earnings, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. negative market conditions may also impair our ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of commercial paper or other debt securities or may negatively impact our ability to borrow from financial institutions. our products are continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market's or u.s. fda's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years, including the 2015 acquisition of covidien, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. these efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential liability imposed by fcpa, 26 table of contents any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, our ability to retain key employees, and the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. we also could experience negative effects on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. these effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. we may not complete the planned disposition of the patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses within the patient monitoring &amp; recovery division of our minimally invasive therapies group on the anticipated timeline or at all, and, even if completed, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipate. in april 2017, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to sell the patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses within the patient monitoring &amp; recovery division of our minimally invasive therapies group to cardinal health, inc. for $6.1 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments, with total after-tax proceeds estimated to be approximately $5.5 billion. we expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of our 2018 fiscal year, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions. in connection with the transaction, we announced that we anticipate a number of benefits from the disposition, including improvements in our revenue growth rate and operating margin, a lower debt leverage ratio, and an increased ability to fund potential investments in higher growth and higher margin opportunities. the disposition transaction is complex in nature, subject to various conditions, and may be adversely affected by unanticipated developments and unexpected changes in market or other conditions. if any closing conditions are not met, the closing of the disposition transaction may be delayed or fail to occur, and we may not achieve the intended benefits we anticipate. moreover, if the disposition is not completed on the anticipated timeline or at all, our ongoing operation of the patient monitoring &amp; recovery division may be harmed. even if the disposition transaction is completed, we may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits, including the financial and operational benefits described above, and our future investments and other business opportunities that we anticipate will be facilitated by the disposition may not be successful and may prove not to be superior alternatives to the continued operation of our current patient monitoring &amp; recovery division. further, execution of the proposed disposition will require significant time and attention from management and other employees, including following the closing of the disposition transaction, which may divert the attention of our management and other employees from the execution of our other initiatives and could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. the expansion of our services and solutions business may not yield the revenue we expect and will expose us to new risks. we are increasingly focusing on our services and solutions businesses and the creation of comprehensive value-based healthcare offerings, in which payment is based on measurable patient outcomes over a specific time horizon. these offerings include care management services, cath lab and operating room managed services, and solutions for chronic disease management. we intend to expand our services and solutions model across all of our business groups and across geographic regions. however, we remain in the relatively early stages of developing and implementing this business model. as a result, we will need to invest significant expense and management resources into developing our expertise and executing our strategies, and our efforts may not be profitable. in addition, the expansion of our services and solutions business model will expose us to, or increase our exposure to, a variety of regulations in the various countries we provide services and solutions, including regulations related to government payments, fraud and abuse, patient privacy, and the corporate practice of medicine. compliance with these regulations may prove to be more costly than we anticipate, and we may not successfully comply with such regulations. these regulatory costs may slow our expansion into these business areas and may have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. the medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. these investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to rigorous regulation by the u.s. fda and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. these authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the u.s. department of justice and the office 27 table of contents of inspector general of hhs. these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance, and product promotional practices. we cooperate with these investigations and respond to such requests. however, when an investigation begins, we cannot predict when it will be resolved, the outcome of the investigation, or its impact on us. an adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, entry into corporate integrity agreements (cias) with governmental agencies and amendments to existing cias. in addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by a government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. at april 28, 2017, our total consolidated external debt was approximately $33.4 billion. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our floating rate notes and revolving credit facility is variable. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. our ability to generate cash in the future is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various jurisdictions outside the u.s. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. for example, legislation in 2010 imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical device manufacturers for u.s. sales of medical devices beginning in january 2013. proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents medtronic, inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. in march 2009, the irs issued its audit report for medtronic inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. medtronic, inc. reached agreements with the irs on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. on december 23, 2010, the irs issued a statutory notice of deficiency with respect to the remaining issues. medtronic, inc. filed a petition with the u.s. tax court on march 21, 2011 objecting to the deficiency. during october and november 2012, medtronic, inc. reached a resolution with the irs on various matters, including the deductibility of a settlement payment. medtronic, inc. and the irs agreed to hold one issue, the calculation of amounts eligible for the one-time repatriation holiday, because that issue was being addressed by other taxpayers in litigation with the irs. the remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico, which is one of the company's key manufacturing sites. the u.s. tax court proceeding with respect to this issue began on february 3, 2015 and ended on march 12, 2015. on june 9, 2016, the u.s. tax court issued its opinion with respect to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. the u.s. tax court generally rejected the irs's position, but also made certain modifications to the medtronic, inc. tax returns as filed. during november 2016, medtronic and the irs entered into a stipulation of settled issues with the tax court which resolved the one-time repatriation holiday as an outstanding issue unless either party decided to appeal the tax court opinion and a final decision is inconsistent with the u.s. tax court opinion. the u.s. tax court entered their final decision on january 25, 2017. on april 21, 2017 the irs filed their notice of appeal to the u.s. court of appeals for the 8th circuit regarding the tax court opinion. a hearing date for the appeal has not been set. a decision by the 8 th circuit court of appeals overturning the tax court opinion could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. examination and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. the company has provided reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the company's estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges to expense and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the distribution of mallinckrodt ordinary shares to covidien shareholders in 2013, or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2013 separation, are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. covidien received an irs ruling substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, (i) certain transactions effected in connection with its 2013 separation of mallinckrodt qualify as transactions under sections 355 and/or 368(a) of the code, and (ii) the distribution qualifies as a transaction under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. in addition to obtaining the irs ruling, covidien received a tax opinion from skadden, arps, slate, meagher &amp; flom llp, in form and substance acceptable to covidien, which relied on the effectiveness of the irs ruling, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distribution and certain transactions entered into in connection with the distribution qualify as transactions under sections 355 and/or 368(a) of the code. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings in the case of the 2013 separation, from covidien and mallinckrodt, regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the tax opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the 2013 distribution or the related internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the respective facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distributions, or if the irs were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinions that are not covered by the irs rulings. we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities or tax indemnification obligations, whether under applicable law or the tax matters agreement that was entered into with mallinckrodt, if it is ultimately determined that certain related transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2013 distribution are taxable. our tax position may be adversely affected by changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations. recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, limit the ability of foreign-owned corporations to deduct interest expense, tax the accumulated unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries of u.s. corporations, impose a minimum tax on the future offshore earnings of u.s. multinational groups, and to make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations. 29 table of contents additionally, the u.s. congress, government agencies in non-u.s. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business, and the organisation for economic co-operation and development have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of base erosion and profit shifting, where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. the organisation for economic co-operation and development has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. as a result, the tax laws in the u.s., ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business. moreover, tax authorities may carefully scrutinize companies that result from a cross-border business combination (such as us), which may lead such authorities to assert that we owe additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. as an irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit medtronic's flexibility to manage its capital structure. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. accordingly, our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, provisions authorizing the board to issue new shares, and to disapply statutory preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the disapplication of statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. a transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the depository trust company, may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company (dtc) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold our shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. the potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of your shares. 30 table of contents in certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and other specified countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through dtc will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. shareholders entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with ireland other than their shareholding in our company (for example, they are resident in ireland). shareholders who receive dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends. our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax (cat) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold which irish revenue typically updates annually in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. risks relating to the covidien acquisition (the transaction) we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transactions or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating medtronic, inc. and covidien. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the medtronic, inc. and covidien businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of medtronic, inc. and covidien. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the transaction. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of the businesses of medtronic, inc. and covidien are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of medtronic, inc. and covidien. all of these factors could negatively impact our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. as a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the medtronic, inc. and covidien businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction. 31 table of contents future potential changes to the u.s. tax laws could result in us being treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and the irs may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s federal income tax purposes. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. even so, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). under section 7874 of the code, if medtronic inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the transaction hold 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction does not have substantial business activities in ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. based on the rules for determining share ownership under section 7874 of the code, medtronic, inc.'s shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. therefore, under current law, we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. in addition, changes to section 7874 or the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder could affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application. since section 7874 was enacted, there have been various legislative proposals to broaden its scope. such proposals could, among other things, treat a foreign acquiring corporation as a u.s. corporation under section 7874 if the former shareholders of the u.s. corporation own more than 50% of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the transaction, or if the foreign corporation's affiliated group has substantial business activities in the u.s. and the foreign corporation is primarily managed and controlled in the u.s. accordingly, if enacted in their present form and retroactively effective to apply to the transactions, such proposals could cause us to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, based on our existing expected cash flows, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. specifically, if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, we would be subject to u.s. corporate income tax on our worldwide income, and the income of our foreign subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. tax when repatriated or when deemed recognized under the u.s. tax rules for controlled foreign corporations (cfc's). additionally, covidien's foreign corporations, which are not currently cfc's, would become cfc's making them potentially subject to current or future u.s. taxation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the u.s. treasury department and the irs may promulgate rules that would adversely affect our tax position. the u.s. treasury department could make changes in the regulatory rules affecting companies that move their tax domicile outside the u.s. in the event the u.s. treasury department and the irs were to change the applicable regulatory rules, we could face potentially substantial tax costs as a result of the transactions. we cannot assess the potential impact of any such possible changes, if adopted, until they are announced. on april 4, 2016, the u.s. treasury department and the irs issued proposed and temporary regulations interpreting multiple sections of the code, including section 7874, to address inversion transactions and transactions that treasury and the irs characterize as post-inversion tax avoidance transactions. such regulations generally apply to transactions completed on or after september 22, 2014, although in some cases they have a later effective date of april 4, 2016. the regulations expand the set of circumstances under which section 7874 applies to cause the foreign acquirer of a u.s. corporation to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. such regulations also impose additional u.s. taxes on certain transactions involving the acquired u.s. corporation's cfc's. the regulations do not cause us to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, if ultimately upheld by a reviewing court, the regulations limit our ability to engage in various intercompany transactions involving non-u.s. subsidiaries. in addition, the u.s. treasury department and the irs issued final and temporary regulations on october 1, 2016, which might limit our ability to deduct interest expense on certain intercompany debt for u.s federal income tax purposes. 32 table of contents the transaction may not allow us to maintain competitive global cash management and a competitive effective corporate tax rate. while we believe that being incorporated in ireland should help us maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate and provide flexible global cash management, we are unable to give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate nor global cash accessibility will be, however, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we will operate. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate or global cash accessibility. legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of u.s. federal or state governmental contracts to u.s. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk currency exchange rate risk due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes. in periods in which the u.s. dollar, our functional currency, is strengthening/weakening as compared to other currencies, our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities denominated in other currencies may be translated into u.s. dollars at a lower/higher value than they would be in an otherwise constant currency exchange rate environment. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows. in order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. these contracts are designed to hedge anticipated transactions in other currencies and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. at inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. the primary currencies of our derivative instruments are the euro and japanese yen. fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. we do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes. the gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at april 28, 2017 and april 29, 2016 was $10.8 billion . at april 28, 2017 , these contracts were in a net unrealized gain position of $118 million. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at april 28, 2017 indicates that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase/decrease by approximately $836 million. any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. these offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our short-term investments and our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. our debt portfolio at april 28, 2017 was comprised of debt predominately denominated in u.s. dollars, of which approximately 85% is fixed rate debt and approximately 15% is floating-rate debt. we are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements, and forward starting interest rate swap agreements. a sensitivity analysis of the impact on our investments in interest rate sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, compared to interest rates at april 28, 2017 , indicates that the fair value of these instruments would correspondingly change by $67 million. for a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the liquidity and capital resources section of the management's discussion and analysis in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional discussion of market risk, see notes 6 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors in this annual report on form 10-k, as well as those related to: competition in the medical device industry; reduction or interruption in our supply; quality problems, liquidity shortfalls; decreasing prices and pricing pressure; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in applicable tax rates; positions taken by taxing authorities; adverse regulatory action; delays in regulatory approvals; litigation results; 1 table of contents self-insurance; commercial insurance; health care policy changes; international operations; cybersecurity incidents; failure to complete or achieve the intended benefits of acquisitions or divestitures; or disruption of our current plans and operations. consequently, no forward-looking statement may be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. we intend to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 regarding our forward-looking statements, and are including this sentence for the express purpose of enabling us to use the protections of the safe harbor with respect to all forward-looking statements. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview medtronic plc, headquartered in dublin, ireland, is among the world's largest medical technology, services, and solutions companies - alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world. medtronic was founded in 1949 and today serves hospitals, physicians, clinicians, and patients in more than 150 countries worldwide. we remain committed to a mission written by our founder in 1960 that directs us to contribute to human welfare by the application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of products to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. with innovation and market leadership, we have pioneered advances in medical technology in all of our businesses. our commitment to enhance our offerings by developing and acquiring new products, wrap-around programs, and solutions to meet the needs of a broader set of stakeholders is driven by the following primary strategies: therapy innovation: delivering a strong launch cadence of meaningful therapies and procedures. globalization: addressing the inequity in health care access globally, primarily in emerging markets. economic value: becoming a leader in value-based health care by offering new services and solutions to improve outcomes and efficiencies, lower costs by reducing hospitalizations, improve remote clinical management, and increase patient engagement. our primary customers include hospitals, clinics, third-party health care providers, distributors, and other institutions, including governmental health care programs and group purchasing organizations (gpos). medtronic plc is the successor to medtronic, inc., a minnesota corporation. medtronic, inc. and covidien plc (covidien) were combined under and became subsidiaries of medtronic plc on january 26, 2015. on july 29, 2017, we completed the divestiture of our patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses. among the product lines included in the divestiture were the dental and animal health, chart paper, wound care, incontinence, electrodes, sharpsafety, thermometry, perinatal protection, blood collection, compression, and enteral feeding offerings. prior to the divestiture, these businesses were included within the minimally invasive therapies group segment. we have four operating and reportable segments that primarily develop, manufacture, distribute, and sell device-based medical therapies and services. our segments and their portion of our total reported net sales for fiscal year 2018 of $30.0 billion are as follows: cardiac and vascular group ( $11.4 billion ) minimally invasive therapies group ( $8.7 billion ) restorative therapies group ( $7.7 billion ) diabetes group ( $2.1 billion ) for more information regarding our segments, please see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k. cardiac and vascular group the cardiac and vascular group is made up of the cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure, coronary &amp; structural heart, and aortic &amp; peripheral vascular divisions. the primary medical specialists who use our cardiac and vascular products include electrophysiologists, implanting cardiologists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular, cardiothoracic, and vascular surgeons, and interventional cardiologists and radiologists. 3 table of contents cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure our cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure division develops, manufactures, and markets products for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of heart rhythm disorders and heart failure. our products include implantable devices, leads and delivery systems, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (af), products designed to reduce surgical site infections, information systems for the management of patients with cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure devices, ventricular assist systems, and an integrated health solutions business. principal products and services offered include: implantable cardiac pacemakers including the azure, adapta, advisa mri surescan, and micra transcatheter pacing system, which is leadless and does not have a subcutaneous device pocket like a conventional pacemaker. implantable cardioverter defibrillators (icds), including the visia af and evera mri surescan, which is paired with the reliable sprint quattro secure lead, the only defibrillator lead with more than 12 years of proven performance with active monitoring. implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (crt-ds and crt-ps) including the claria/amplia/compia family of mri quad crt-d surescan systems and the percepta/serena/solara family of mri quad crt-p surescan systems. the claria crt-d mri and percepta crt-p mri devices feature effectivcrt, which is an algorithm that verifies left ventricular pacing effectiveness and automatically tailors the therapy to individual patients, and the adaptivcrt algorithm, which reduces a patient's odds of a 30-day heart failure readmission and has demonstrated a reduction in af risk compared to echo-optimized biventricular pacing. af ablation products including the arctic front advance cardiac cryoballoon system, which includes the arctic front advance st cryoablation catheter, designed for pulmonary vein isolation in the treatment of patients with drug refractory paroxysmal af and the second-generation phased rf system, pvac gold, which uses duty cycled, phased radio frequency energy for the treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal persistent and long-standing persistent af. insertable cardiac monitor systems including the reveal linq, which is used to record the heart's electrical activity before, during, and after transient symptoms such as syncope (i.e., fainting) and palpitations to assist in diagnosis. mechanical circulatory support products including miniaturized implantable heart pumps, or ventricular assist devices, patient accessories and surgical tools to treat patients suffering from advanced heart failure. tyrx products including the absorbable antibacterial envelope and the tyrx neuro absorbable antibacterial envelope, which are designed to stabilize electronic implantable devices and help prevent infection associated with implantable pacemakers, defibrillators, and spinal cord neurostimulators. remote monitoring services and patient-centered software to enable efficient care coordination and specialized telehealth nurse support as well as services related to hospital operational efficiency. coronary &amp; structural heart our coronary &amp; structural heart division includes therapies to treat coronary artery disease and heart valve disorders. our products include coronary stents and related delivery systems, including a broad line of balloon angioplasty catheters, guide catheters, guide wires, diagnostic catheters, and accessories as well as products for the repair and replacement of heart valves, perfusion systems, positioning and stabilization systems for beating heart revascularization surgery, and surgical ablation products. principal products and services offered include: corevalve family of aortic valves, including our second-generation recapturable tcv system, corevalve evolut r, and our third-generation system, corevalve evolut pro. percutaneous coronary intervention stent products including our resolute integrity and resolute onyx drug-eluting stent systems. surgical valve replacement and repair products for damaged or diseased heart valves, including both tissue and mechanical valves, blood-handling products that form a circulatory support system to maintain and monitor blood circulation and coagulation status, oxygen supply, and body temperature during arrested heart surgery, and surgical ablation systems and positioning and stabilization technologies. aortic &amp; peripheral vascular our aortic &amp; peripheral vascular division is comprised of a comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat aortic disease (such as aneurysms, dissections, and transections) as well as peripheral vascular disease, and venous disease. our products include endovascular stent graft systems, peripheral drug coated balloons, stent and angioplasty systems, and carotid embolic protection 4 table of contents systems for the treatment of vascular disease outside the heart, and products for superficial and deep venous disease. principal products and services offered include: endovascular stent grafts and accessories including the endurant abdominal aortic aneurysm stent graft system family of products, the valiant captivia thoracic aortic aneurysm stent graft system, and the heli-fx endoanchor system. percutaneous angioplasty balloons including the in.pact family of drug-coated balloons, vascular stents, such as the prot g and everflex self-expanding stents and visi-pro balloon expandable stents, directional atherectomy products, such as the hawkone plaque excision system, and other procedure support tools. products to treat superficial venous diseases in the lower extremities including the closurefast rf ablation system and the venaseal medical adhesive closure system. minimally invasive therapies group the minimally invasive therapies group is made up of the surgical innovations and respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal divisions. products and therapies of this group are used primarily by hospitals, physicians' offices, ambulatory care centers, and other alternate site healthcare providers. while less frequent, some products and therapies are also used in home settings. surgical innovations our surgical innovations division develops, manufactures, and markets advanced and general surgical products including surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, and gynecology products and therapies to treat diseases and conditions that are typically, but not exclusively, addressed by surgeons. principal products and services offered include: advanced stapling products, including the tri-staple technology platform for endoscopic stapling, including the endo gia reloads and reinforced reloads with tri-staple technology and the endo gia ultra universal stapler, the signia and idrive powered stapling systems, the ligasure vessel sealing system with nano-coating, and the sonicision cordless ultrasonic dissection system. electrosurgical hardware and instruments, including the valleylab ft10 energy platform, and the force triverse electrosurgical pencil. products designed for the treatment of hernias, including the absorbatack absorbable mesh fixation device for hernia repair, the symbotex composite mesh for surgical laparoscopic and open ventral hernia repair, and parietex progrip, a self-gripping, biocompatible solution for inguinal hernias. respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal our respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal division develops, manufactures, and markets products in the emerging fields of minimally invasive gastrointestinal diagnostics and therapies, respiratory monitoring, airway management and ventilation therapies, and for the treatment of renal disease. principal products and services offered include: gastrointestinal and endoscopy products, including the pillcam colon, the emprint ablation system with thermosphere technology, the het bipolar system, the cool-tip radiofrequency ablation system, the barrx platform with the barrx 360 express catheter, and the halo ablation catheters for treatment of barrett's esophagus. airway, ventilation, and inhalation therapies products, including the puritan bennett 980 ventilator, the newport e360 and ht70 ventilators, the taperguard evac tube, shiley endotracheal tubes, shiley tracheostomy tubes, and dar filters. products focused on patient monitoring, including the capnostream with microstream technology capnography monitors, the nellcor bedside spo2 patient monitoring system, the bispectral index (bis) brain monitoring technology, and the invos cerebral/somatic oximeter. products providing solutions for the treatment of renal disease, including palindrome, mahurkar and mahurkar elite dialysis access catheters for renal therapy, and other products designed for use in treatment of both acute and chronic renal failure conditions. 5 table of contents restorative therapies group the restorative therapies group is made up of the spine, brain, specialty therapies and pain therapies divisions. the primary medical specialists who use the products of this group include spinal surgeons, neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, anesthesiologists, orthopedic surgeons, urologists, colorectal surgeons, urogynecologists, interventional radiologists, and ear, nose, and throat specialists. spine our spine division develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive line of medical devices and implants used in the treatment of the spine and musculoskeletal system. our spine division also provides biologic solutions for the orthopedic and dental markets and, in concert with our neurosurgery business, offers unique and highly differentiated imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and mazor robotics integrated for our spine procedures. principal products and services offered include: products to treat a variety of conditions affecting the spine, including degenerative disc disease, spinal deformity, spinal tumors, fractures of the spine, and stenosis. these products include our cd horizon solera and legacy systems, and the capstone, clydesdale, and elevate interbody spacers. products that facilitate less invasive thoracolumbar surgeries, including the cd horizon voyager, solera sextant and longitude percutaneous fixation systems. products to treat conditions in the cervical region of the spine, including the zevo and atlantis vision elite anterior cervical plate systems, the vertex select reconstruction system, and the prestige and bryan cervical artificial discs. biologic solutions products, including our infuse bone graft (inductos in the european union (e.u.)), which contains a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein, rhbmp-2, for certain spinal, trauma, and oral maxillofacial applications. demineralized bone matrix products, including magnifuse, grafton/grafton plus, and progenix, and the mastergraft family of synthetic bone graft products - matrix, putty, and granules. brain therapies our brain therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets an integrated portfolio of devices and therapies for the treatment of neurological disorders and diseases, as well as surgical technologies designed to improve the precision and workflow of neuro procedures. principal products and services offered include: neurovascular products to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain. this includes coils, neurovascular stents, and flow diversion products, as well as access and delivery products to support procedures. products also include the pipeline flex embolization devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms, the portfolio of solitaire revascularization devices for treatment of acute ischemic stroke, and a portfolio of access catheters. brain modulation products, including those for the treatment of the disabling symptoms of parkinson's disease, essential tremor, refractory epilepsy (outside the u.s.), severe, treatment-resistant obsessive compulsive disorder (approved under a humanitarian device exemption (hde) in the u.s.), and chronic, intractable primary dystonia (approved under a hde in the u.s.). specifically, this includes our family of activa neurostimulators, including activa sc (single-channel primary cell battery), activa pc (dual channel primary cell battery), and activa rc (dual channel rechargeable battery). neurosurgery products, including platform technologies and implant therapies. our stealthstation s8 navigation system and o-arm imaging system are both platforms used in cranial, spinal, sinus, and orthopedic procedures. our midas rex surgical drills are used in cranial, spinal, and orthopedic procedures. our csf management portfolio is used in treating hydrocephalus and other conditions impacting the intracranial pressure, and our visualase mri-guided laser ablation is used in cranial procedures. the mazor x robotic guidance systems are used in robot-assisted spine procedures under an exclusive worldwide distributor agreement with mazor robotics. specialty therapies our specialty therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases of the ear, nose and throat (ent), help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. additionally, our specialty therapies division includes products in the emerging field of transformative solutions surgical incision technology, as well as the haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone. principal products and services offered include: pelvic health and gastric therapies products, including interstim, a neurostimulator, to help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. our percutaneous tibial 6 table of contents neuromodulation uses the nuro device for the treatment of overactive bladder and associated symptoms of urinary urge incontinence, urinary urgency, and urinary frequency. the enterra gastric neurostimulator is approved as a humanitarian device and is used for the treatment of chronic, intractable nausea and vomiting due to gastroparesis. ent products, including the straightshot m5 microdebrider handpiece, the ipc system, nim nerve monitoring systems, ent navigation system, as well as products for hearing restoration and obstructive sleep apnea. transformative solutions products, including our peak surgery system and aquamantys system. our peak surgery system is a tissue dissection system that consists of the peak plasmablade and pulsar generator and is cleared for use in a variety of settings, including plastic reconstructive surgery, general surgery, and certain conditions of ent. our aquamantys system uses patented transcollation technology to provide haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone and is cleared for use in a variety of surgical procedures, including orthopedic surgery, spine, solid organ resection and thoracic procedures. pain therapies our pain therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets spinal cord stimulation systems, implantable drug infusion systems for chronic pain, as well as interventional products. principal products and services offered include: spinal cord stimulation products for chronic pain, including rechargeable and non-rechargeable devices and a large selection of leads used to treat chronic back and/or limb pain. this includes systems with surescan mri technology and the evolve workflow algorithm, including the intellis (rechargeable) surescan mri. products also include our restoresensor (rechargeable) surescan mri, with its proprietary adaptivestim technology. implantable drug infusion systems, including our synchromed ii implantable infusion system, that deliver small quantities of drug directly into the intrathecal space surrounding the spinal cord. interventional products, including the xpander ii balloon kyphoplasty system, the kyphon-v vertebroplasty system and the osteocool rf tumor ablation system. diabetes group the diabetes group develops, manufactures, and markets products and services for the management of type i and type ii diabetes. the primary medical specialists who use and/or prescribe our diabetes products are endocrinologists and primary care physicians. principal products and services offered include: insulin pumps, including the minimed 670g system, featuring the first hybrid closed loop system in the world and the most advanced smartguard algorithm. the minimed 640g system, offered outside the u.s., is an integrated system with the enhanced enlite cgm sensor that features smartguard technology, which automatically suspends insulin delivery when sensor glucose levels are predicted to approach a low limit and then resumes insulin delivery once levels recover. continuous glucose monitoring (cgm) systems, including the guardian connect standalone cgm system and the ipro2 professional cgm, is a product worn by patients to capture glucose data that is later uploaded in a physician's office to reveal glucose patterns and potential problems, such as hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic episodes. therapy management software, including carelink software for patients and for healthcare professionals, with advanced web technology to help patients and their health care providers control their diabetes and improve engagement. 7 table of contents other factors impacting our operations research and development the chart below illustrates our research and development (r&amp;d) expense and r&amp;d expense as a percentage of net sales during fiscal years 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : the markets in which we participate are subject to rapid technological advances. constant improvement of existing products and introduction of new products are necessary to maintain market leadership. our r&amp;d efforts are directed toward maintaining or achieving technological leadership in each of the markets we serve in order to help ensure that patients using our devices and therapies receive the most advanced and effective treatment possible. we remain committed to developing technological enhancements and new indications for existing products, and less invasive and new technologies for new and emerging markets to address unmet patient needs. that commitment leads to our initiation and participation in many clinical trials each fiscal year as the demand for clinical and economic evidence remains high. furthermore, our development activities are intended to help reduce patient care costs and the length of hospital stays in the future. we have not engaged in significant customer or government-sponsored research. our r&amp;d activities include improving existing products and therapies, expanding their indications and applications for use, and developing new therapies and procedures. we continue to focus on optimizing innovation, improving our r&amp;d productivity, driving growth in emerging markets, clinical evidence generation, and assessing our r&amp;d programs based on their ability to deliver economic value to our customers. intellectual property we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. in addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses relating to a wide array of third-party technologies. in the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to any segment of our business or to our business as a whole. we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation may result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. at any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. for additional information, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. 8 table of contents sales and distribution we sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the u.s. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the u.s. for certain portions of our business, we also sell through distributors in the u.s. our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, gpos and integrated delivery networks (idns) primarily through third-party distributors, although we also have direct sales representatives. we often negotiate with gpos and idns, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. our four largest markets are the u.s., western europe, japan, and china. emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity, as we believe they remain under-penetrated. our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide. to achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. this focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. we are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales. competition, industry and cost containment we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. our product lines face a mix of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. in addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems in the medical device industry. in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products. government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the u.s. these changes put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. government programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health care insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms. hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, centralized purchasing, and in some cases, limiting the number of vendors that may participate in the purchasing program. hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from changes in practice patterns such as device standardization. this has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. worldwide operations our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country. exchange rate fluctuations may affect revenues, earnings, and cash flows from operations. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. 9 table of contents production and availability of raw materials we manufacture products at manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, due to the u.s. fda's manufacturing requirements, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials if we experience a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply and are unable to develop alternative sources. for additional information related to our manufacturing facilities refer to item 2. properties in this annual report on form 10-k. quality management and product liability our business success depends on the quality of our products, and we have global processes, procedures and programs, including our quality begins with me program, that are intended to help us maintain the highest possible level of quality in all products. we operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. these claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. working capital our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to meet the product delivery needs of our customers. we also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. employees on april 27, 2018 , we employed more than 86,000 full-time employees. our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits and our rewarding work environment. seasonality worldwide sales do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality. however, the number of medical procedures incorporating medtronic products is generally lower during summer months due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in european countries. government regulation our operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda, european regulatory authorities such as the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency in the united kingdom (u.k.) and the federal institute for drugs and medical devices in germany, the china food and drug administration (cfda), and other government agencies inside and outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and post-marketing surveillance of our products. our business is also affected by patient privacy laws and government payer cost containment initiatives, as well as environmental health and safety laws and regulations. product approval and monitoring many countries where we sell medical devices subject such medical devices and technologies to their own approval and other regulatory requirements regarding performance, safety, and quality of our products. authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device in the u.s. is generally obtained in one of two ways. the first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. the second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval, requires us to independently demonstrate that a medical device is safe and effective for its intended use. this process is generally much more time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process. in the e.u., a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the ce mark. to obtain a ce mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. the competent authorities of the e.u. countries separately regulate the clinical research for medical devices and the market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. a new medical device regulation was published by the e.u. in 2017 which will impose significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements. the regulation has a three-year implementation 10 table of contents period to may 2020. after that time, medical devices marketed in the e.u. will require certification according to these new requirements, except that devices with valid ce certificates, issued pursuant to the medical device directives before may 2020, can be placed on the market until may 2024. the global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent and unpredictable. several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years, and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, their existing regulations. while harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. we expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact the cost, the time needed to approve, and ultimately, our ability to maintain existing approvals or obtain future approvals for our products. regulations of the u.s. fda and other regulatory agencies in and outside the u.s. impose extensive compliance and monitoring obligations on our business. these agencies review our design and manufacturing practices, labeling, record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. we are also subject to periodic inspections for compliance with applicable quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of finished medical devices intended for human use. in addition, the u.s. fda and other regulatory bodies, both in and outside the u.s. (including the federal trade commission, the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, the u.s. department of justice, and various state attorneys general), monitor the promotion and advertising of our products. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may limit our ability to effectively market and sell our products, limit our ability to obtain future premarket approvals or result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. for additional information, see "item 1a. risk factors" we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operation s. in april 2015, we entered into a consent decree with the u.s. fda relating to our pain therapies division's synchromed drug infusion system and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree requires us to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the synchromed pump and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree's limitations on our ability to manufacture and distribute the synchromed drug infusion system were lifted by the u.s. fda in september 2017. following the successful completion of the required third-party expert audits, and in coordination with the fda, the consent decree will be vacated. the company must undergo third-party audits and submit audit reports to the u.s. fda through 2020. in june 2016, tyrx received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the tyrx facility in monmouth junction, new jersey. the u.s. fda completed its follow up inspection to the warning letter in march 2018 and issued a 483 with observations, although the u.s. fda noted in its closing meeting that there had been significant improvements made since the prior inspection. we continue to make progress on our commitments and continuously report the progress to the u.s. fda. in june 2014, heartware inc. received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the heartware facility in miami lakes, florida. we acquired heartware in august 2016, and have been implementing actions and process improvements to address the items in the warning letter. upon completing implementation of actions and process improvements to address the items in the warning letters and reinspection by the u.s. fda, we expect that the tyrx and heartware warning letters will be lifted. trade regulations the movement of products, services, and investment across borders subject us to extensive trade regulations. a variety of laws and regulations in the countries in which we transact business apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across borders. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import, export and other business activities. we are also subject to the risk that these laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. some governments also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. in addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. if we, or the third parties through which we do business, are not in compliance with applicable import, export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability. such actions may disrupt or delay sales of our products or services or result in restrictions on our distribution and sales of products or services that may materially impact our business. anti-boycott laws under u.s. laws and regulations, u.s. companies and their subsidiaries and affiliates outside the u.s. are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the u.s. or between the u.s. and countries outside of the u.s. if we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, violate anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action and varying degrees of liability. 11 table of contents data privacy and security laws and regulations as a business with a significant global footprint, compliance with evolving regulations and standards in data privacy and cybersecurity has resulted, and may continue to result, in increased costs, new compliance challenges, and the threat of increased regulatory enforcement activity. our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including personal information, protected health information, financial information, intellectual property and other sensitive information related to our customers and workforce. for example, in the u.s., the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of certain personal information and the security of medical devices are regulated at the u.s. federal and state, international and industry levels. u.s. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. privacy and security rules under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), as amended, and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act of 2009 (hitech), govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by covered entities, (which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses) and by their business associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the covered entity's workforce). rules under hipaa and hitech include specific security standards and breach notification requirements. the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) (through the office of civil rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to both the security and privacy rules, including civil and criminal liability. with the exception of certain of its operations in its diabetes and care management services businesses, medtronic is generally not a covered entity. medtronic also operates as a business associate to covered entities in a limited number of instances. there are comparable state laws governing the use and protection of personal health information by health care providers, and medtronic may be subject to these laws in certain of its businesses. in addition to the regulation of personal health information, a number of states have also adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and data security practices for other kinds of personally identifiable information, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of sensitive personal information, such as social security numbers, or that are designed to protect credit card account data. state consumer protection laws may also establish privacy and security standards for use and management of personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. outside the u.s., we are impacted by the privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. we serve customers in more than 150 countries. legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, handling and transfer of personal data and potentially intellectual property continue to evolve with increasingly strict enforcement regimes. more privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. in the e.u., increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules that will have substantial impact on the use of patient data across the healthcare industry became effective in may 2018. the new e.u. general data protection regulation (gdpr) applies uniformly across the e.u. and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances and significant fines for non-compliance. the gdpr also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the e.u. to comply with e.u. privacy and data protection rules. because the laws and regulations continue to expand, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and are subject to evolving (and at times inconsistent) governmental interpretation, compliance with these laws and regulations may require significant additional cost expenditures or changes in products or business that increase competition or reduce revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop noncompliant activities. regulations governing reimbursement the delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by hhs and comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. u.s. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the medicare and medicaid programs, as well as the government's interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. other governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. u.s. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under medicare, medicaid, or other federally-funded health care programs, including laws related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and health care fraud. there are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. in some circumstances, insurance companies can attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act, or rico. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved 12 table of contents devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. further, as a result of the patient protection and affordable care act (the aca ), the u.s. is implementing value-based payment methodologies and seeking to create alternate payment models, such as bundled payments, to continue to drive improved value. environmental health and safety laws we are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the u.s. like other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. available information we maintain a website at www.medtronic.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are made available under the about medtronic - investors caption and financial information - sec filings subcaption of our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). information relating to our corporate governance, including our principles of corporate governance, code of conduct (including our code of ethics for senior financial officers), code of business conduct and ethics for members of the board of directors, and information concerning our executive officers, directors and board committees (including committee charters) is available through our website at www.medtronic.com under the about medtronic - corporate governance caption. information relating to transactions in medtronic securities by directors and officers is available through our website at www.medtronic.com under the about medtronic - investors caption and the financial information - sec filings subcaption. the information listed above may also be obtained upon request from the medtronic investor relations department, 710 medtronic parkway, minneapolis, mn 55432 usa. our website and the information contained on or connected to our website are not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the company, that file electronically with the sec. the public may obtain any documents that we file with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . we file annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the exchange act. the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 800-sec-0330. item 1a. risk factors investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the sec. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. 13 table of contents risks relating to the company we operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. in the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. in addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. we believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: product performance and reliability, product technology and innovation, product quality and safety, breadth of product lines, product support services, customer support, cost-effectiveness and price, and reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers. competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. in addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. these companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. from time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. further, our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success. reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. the manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. we manufacture the majority of our products at numerous manufacturing facilities worldwide. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components and raw materials used in our products are obtained from a sole supplier. although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components and raw materials may be interrupted or insufficient. in addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of regulatory agencies, including the u.s. fda, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. we use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. a reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales. other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales and fulfillment systems for any reason, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes or wildfires, and other environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. for example, in june 2017 we experienced a global information technology systems 14 table of contents interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes. furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues. in addition, several of our key products are manufactured at a particular manufacturing facility, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of such facilities, such as the damage caused by hurricane maria in puerto rico in september 2017, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at the previous levels or at all. because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing capacity is lost. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the u.s. fda, u.s. department of justice, health and human services-office of the inspector general, and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials or the market's or u.s. fda's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may: take a significant amount of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and limit the proposed uses of our products. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under u.s. fda and other applicable non-u.s. government agency regulations. for instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the u.s. fda to determine compliance with applicable regulations. the results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on u.s. fda's form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could ban such medical products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-u.s governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the u.s. fda and other non-u.s. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into corporate integrity agreements (cias) with governmental agencies. in addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, the u.s. fda has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. governmental regulations outside the u.s. have, and may continue to, become increasingly stringent and common. in the european union, for example, a new medical device regulation was published in 2017 which, when it enters into full force in 2020, will 15 table of contents include significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company's business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid and comparable non-u.s. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. as a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by hhs, including the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms), as well as comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services, including laws and regulations related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and health care fraud. many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. in certain circumstances, insurance companies can attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing a false claim to be filed under the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. we are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the u.s. and around the world. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. we also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. at any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trade secrets or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and these licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. in addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in those countries. competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 16 table of contents quality problems and product liability claims could lead to recalls or safety alerts, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, and our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. in addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. these problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. due to the strong name recognition of the medtronic and covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. if we fail to meet these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. if our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. in certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. our mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. the rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. in addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. we expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. health care policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the health care system, including u.s. health care reform legislation. certain of these proposals could, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. the adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. we continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with a third-party insurer that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the company. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 17 table of contents if we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have experienced, and may continue to experience, decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payers on our customers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. if the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. we are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. we develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. operations in countries outside of the u.s. are accompanied by certain risks. we intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the u.s., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional and greater risks. our profitability and global operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates, healthcare reform legislation, the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, local product preferences and product requirements, longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s., trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the u.s. than exists in the u.s., different labor regulations and workforce instability, political and economic instability, the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of the referendum, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and e.u. countries and increased regulatory complexities. similarly, from time to time proposals are made in the u.s. to significantly change existing trade agreements and relationships between the u.s. and other countries, although we cannot currently predict whether or how these changes will be implemented. changes to trade policy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. in light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. the failure to comply with anti-bribery laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and similar anti-bribery laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. we also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe. global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. it is our policy 18 table of contents to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements and prohibit improper practices. however, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. in addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for fcpa violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business. the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac), and the bureau of industry and security at the u.s. department of commerce (bis), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict u.s. persons and, in some instances, non-u.s. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to u.s. economic sanctions. our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including iran, sudan, syria, cuba and the region of crimea. certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. these business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. many health care industry companies, including health care systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. as the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. if we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. health care industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components. most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. the continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. if third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. the cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the u.s. and outside of the u.s., could harm our ability to operate profitably. for example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and gpos and idns have also concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us. we are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. our operations involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. if we violate these environmental laws and regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. furthermore, environmental laws outside of the u.s. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. 19 table of contents in addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. the research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position . we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, including to process, transmit and store sensitive data, and many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to our systems. like other large multi-national corporations, we could experience, and in the past have experienced, attempted or actual interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems, as well as data breaches, such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference with the integrity of our products and data or other significant disruptions. furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. these third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. in addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in their systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems. our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. the variety of u.s. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in item 1. business" - other factors impacting our operations - data privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations . for example, in the e.u. the data protection directive requires us to manage individually identifiable information in the e.u., and the new general data protection regulation may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue in the event of violations occurring after its implementation in may 2018. furthermore, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber-attacks. any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. in addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. 20 table of contents if our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, and we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. at april 27, 2018, we had approximately $2.1 billion of current debt obligations and $23.7 billion of long-term debt outstanding. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, and exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our floating rate notes and revolving credit facility is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several significant acquisitions in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. these efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential fcpa liability, any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, our ability to retain key employees, and the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. we also could experience negative effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. these effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 21 table of contents changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the u.s., ireland, and various other jurisdictions in which we operate. the tax laws in the u.s., ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and our effective tax rate. for example, on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") , which resulted in a significant charge to tax expense during our quarter ending january 2018 associated with the u.s. taxation of accumulated foreign earnings as well as the requirement to revalue u.s. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the reduction in the u.s. corporate tax rate. certain elements of the tax act impact fiscal year 2018 while other portions of the legislation are not effective until future fiscal years. the u.s. treasury has issued additional guidance subsequent to the enactment of the tax act, and we expect ongoing guidance to be provided which could change the impact on our tax reserves. we made reasonable estimates of the effect of the tax act and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements for fiscal year 2018. additional guidance, as well as future changes to these rules, may result in adjustments to these estimates which could materially affect our financial results. in 2013, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) published an action plan called base erosion and profit shifting (beps) with a view to tackling perceived tax abuse and inconsistency between taxing authorities and their approach to international tax matters. the final beps action report was published in october 2015 and subsequently many taxing authorities have adopted the guidelines provided within their local laws. the eu expanded upon these guidelines with anti-tax avoidance directives (atad) to be applied by its member states. we continue to monitor any and all changes to local country legislation resulting from this guidance. one specific change is a requirement for increased disclosures of financial information on a local and global basis. this information could lead to disagreements between jurisdictions associated with the proper allocation of profits between such jurisdictions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the medtronic, inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. in march 2009, the irs issued its audit report for medtronic inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. medtronic, inc. reached agreements with the irs on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. the remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. an adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k. future potential changes to the u.s. tax laws could result in us being treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and the irs may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s federal income tax purposes. because medtronic plc is organized under the laws of ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. even so, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). under section 7874 of the code, if medtronic inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the covidien transaction held 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership 22 table of contents test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction did not have substantial business activities in ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would have been treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. based on the rules for determining share ownership under section 7874 of the code, medtronic, inc.'s shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. therefore, under current law, we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of u.s. federal or state governmental contracts to u.s. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation we are incorporated in ireland, and irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the u.s. as an irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit medtronic's flexibility to manage its capital structure. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. accordingly, our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, provisions authorizing the board to issue new shares, and to disapply statutory preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the disapplication of statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. a transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the depository trust company, may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company (dtc) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market 23 table of contents value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. the potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares. in certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and other specified countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through dtc will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. shareholders entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with ireland other than their shareholding in our company (for example, they are resident in ireland). shareholders who receive dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends. our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax (cat) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold which irish revenue typically updates annually in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk currency exchange rate risk due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes which may cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flows. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. in order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. these contracts are designed to hedge anticipated transactions in other currencies and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. at inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. the primary currencies of our derivative instruments are the euro, japanese yen, and british pound. fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. we do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes. the gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at april 27, 2018 and april 28, 2017 was $11.5 billion and $10.8 billion , respectively. at april 27, 2018 , these contracts were in a net unrealized loss position of $159 million. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at april 27, 2018 indicates that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase/decrease by approximately $879 million. any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. these offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our short-term investments and our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. our debt portfolio at april 27, 2018 was comprised of debt predominately denominated in u.s. dollars, of which approximately 95% is fixed rate debt and approximately 5% is floating-rate debt. we are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements, and forward starting interest rate swap agreements. a sensitivity analysis of the impact on our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, as compared to interest rates at april 27, 2018 , indicates that the fair value of these instruments would correspondingly change by $81 million. for a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the liquidity and capital resources section of the management's discussion and analysis in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional discussion of market risk, see notes 6 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors in this annual report on form 10-k, as well as those related to: competition in the medical device industry; reduction or interruption in our supply; laws and governmental regulations; quality problems; liquidity shortfalls; decreasing prices and pricing pressure; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in applicable tax rates; positions taken by taxing authorities; adverse regulatory action; 1 table of contents delays in regulatory approvals; litigation results; self-insurance; commercial insurance; health care policy changes; international operations; cybersecurity incidents; failure to complete or achieve the intended benefits of acquisitions or divestitures; or disruption of our current plans and operations. consequently, no forward-looking statement may be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. we intend to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 regarding our forward-looking statements, and are including this sentence for the express purpose of enabling us to use the protections of the safe harbor with respect to all forward-looking statements. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview medtronic plc, headquartered in dublin, ireland, is among the world's largest medical technology, services, and solutions companies - alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world. medtronic was founded in 1949 and today serves hospitals, physicians, clinicians, and patients in more than 150 countries worldwide. we remain committed to a mission written by our founder in 1960 that directs us to contribute to human welfare by the application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of products to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. with innovation and market leadership, we have pioneered advances in medical technology in all of our businesses. our commitment to enhance our offerings by developing and acquiring new products, wrap-around programs, and solutions to meet the needs of a broader set of stakeholders is driven by the following primary strategies: therapy innovation: delivering a strong launch cadence of meaningful therapies and procedures. globalization: addressing the inequity in health care access globally, primarily in emerging markets. economic value: becoming a leader in value-based health care by offering new services and solutions to improve outcomes and efficiencies, lower costs by reducing hospitalizations, improve remote clinical management, and increase patient engagement. our primary customers include hospitals, clinics, third-party health care providers, distributors, and other institutions, including governmental health care programs and group purchasing organizations (gpos). medtronic plc is the successor to medtronic, inc., a minnesota corporation. medtronic, inc. and covidien plc (covidien) were combined under and became subsidiaries of medtronic plc on january 26, 2015. on july 29, 2017, we completed the divestiture of our patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses. among the product lines included in the divestiture were the dental and animal health, chart paper, wound care, incontinence, electrodes, sharpsafety, thermometry, perinatal protection, blood collection, compression, and enteral feeding offerings. prior to the divestiture, these businesses were included within the minimally invasive therapies group segment. we have four operating and reportable segments that primarily develop, manufacture, distribute, and sell device-based medical therapies and services: the cardiac and vascular group, the minimally invasive therapies group, the restorative therapies group, and the diabetes group. for more information regarding our segments, please see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k. cardiac and vascular group the cardiac and vascular group is made up of the cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure, coronary &amp; structural heart, and aortic, peripheral &amp; venous (formerly aortic &amp; peripheral vascular) divisions. the primary medical specialists who use our cardiac and vascular products include electrophysiologists, implanting cardiologists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular, cardiothoracic, and vascular surgeons, and interventional cardiologists and radiologists. cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure our cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure division develops, manufactures, and markets products for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of heart rhythm disorders and heart failure. our products include implantable devices, leads and delivery systems, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (af), products designed to reduce surgical site infections, information systems for the management of patients with cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure devices, ventricular assist systems, and an integrated health solutions business. principal products and services offered include: implantable cardiac pacemakers including the azure mri surescan, adapta, advisa mri surescan, and micra transcatheter pacing system, which is leadless and does not have a subcutaneous device pocket like a conventional pacemaker. implantable cardioverter defibrillators (icds), including the visia af and evera mri surescan, and defibrillator leads, including the sprint quattro secure lead. 3 table of contents implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (crt-ds and crt-ps) including the claria/amplia/compia family of mri quad crt-d surescan systems and the percepta/serena/solara family of mri quad crt-p surescan systems. af ablation products including the arctic front cardiac cryoablation catheter system, designed for pulmonary vein isolation in the treatment of patients with drug refractory paroxysmal af. insertable cardiac monitoring systems including the reveal linq, which is used to record the heart's electrical activity before, during, and after transient symptoms such as syncope (i.e., fainting) and palpitations to assist in diagnosis. mechanical circulatory support products including miniaturized implantable heart pumps, or ventricular assist devices, patient accessories and surgical tools to treat patients suffering from advanced heart failure. tyrx products including the cardiac and neuro absorbable antibacterial envelopes, which are designed to stabilize electronic implantable devices and help prevent infection associated with implantable pacemakers, defibrillators, and spinal cord neurostimulators. remote monitoring services and patient-centered software to enable efficient care coordination and specialized telehealth nurse support as well as services related to hospital operational efficiency. coronary &amp; structural heart our coronary &amp; structural heart division includes therapies to treat coronary artery disease and heart valve disorders. our products include coronary stents and related delivery systems, including a broad line of balloon angioplasty catheters, guide catheters, guide wires, diagnostic catheters, and accessories, as well as products for the repair and replacement of heart valves, perfusion systems, positioning and stabilization systems for beating heart revascularization surgery, and surgical ablation products. principal products offered include: corevalve family of aortic valves, including the corevalve evolut r and corevalve evolut pro systems for transcatheter aortic valve replacement. percutaneous coronary intervention stent products including our resolute onyx drug-eluting stent. surgical valve replacement and repair products for damaged or diseased heart valves, including both tissue and mechanical valves, blood-handling products that form a circulatory support system to maintain and monitor blood circulation and coagulation status, oxygen supply, and body temperature during arrested heart surgery, and surgical ablation systems and positioning and stabilization technologies. aortic, peripheral &amp; venous our aortic, peripheral &amp; venous division is comprised of a comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat aortic disease, such as aneurysms, dissections, and transections, as well as peripheral vascular disease, and venous disease. our products include endovascular stent graft systems, peripheral drug coated balloons, stent and angioplasty systems, and carotid embolic protection systems for the treatment of vascular disease outside the heart, and products for superficial and deep venous disease. principal products offered include: endovascular stent grafts and accessories including the endurant ii stent grant system for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms, the valiant navion thoracic stent grant system for thoracic endovascular aortic repair procedures, and the heli-fx endoanchor system. percutaneous angioplasty balloons including the in.pact family of drug-coated balloons, vascular stents, directional atherectomy products, and other procedure support tools. products to treat superficial venous diseases in the lower extremities including the closurefast radiofrequency ablation system and the venaseal medical adhesive closure system. minimally invasive therapies group the minimally invasive therapies group is made up of the surgical innovations and respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal divisions. products and therapies of this group are used primarily by hospitals, physicians' offices, ambulatory care centers, and other alternate site healthcare providers. while less frequent, some products and therapies are also used in home settings. 4 table of contents surgical innovations our surgical innovations division develops, manufactures, and markets advanced and general surgical products including surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, and gynecology products and therapies to treat diseases and conditions that are typically, but not exclusively, addressed by surgeons. principal products and services offered include: advanced stapling and energy products, including the tri-staple technology platform for endoscopic stapling, including the endo gia reloads and reinforced reloads with tri-staple technology and the endo gia ultra universal stapler, the signia and idrive powered stapling systems, the ligasure vessel sealing system with nano-coating, and the sonicision cordless ultrasonic dissection system. electrosurgical hardware and instruments, including the valleylab ft10 energy platform, and the force triverse electrosurgical pencils. products designed for the treatment of hernias, including the absorbatack absorbable mesh fixation device for hernia repair, the symbotex composite mesh for surgical laparoscopic and open ventral hernia repair, and parietex progrip, a self-gripping, biocompatible solution for inguinal hernias. respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal our respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal division develops, manufactures, and markets products in the emerging fields of minimally invasive gastrointestinal and hepatologic diagnostics and therapies, patient monitoring, respiratory interventions including airway management and ventilation therapies, and for the treatment of renal disease. principal products and services offered include: gastrointestinal and endoscopy products, including the pillcam colon, the emprint ablation system with thermosphere technology, the het bipolar system, the cool-tip radiofrequency ablation system, the barrx platform through ablation with the barrx 360 express catheter, and the bravo calibration-free reflux testing system. airway, ventilation, and inhalation therapies products, including the puritan bennett 980 ventilator, the newport e360 and ht70 ventilators, the taperguard evac tube, shiley endotracheal tubes, shiley tracheostomy tubes, mcgrath mac video laryngoscopes, and dar filters. products focused on patient monitoring, including the capnostream 35 portable respiratory monitor with microstream technology, the nellcor bedside spo2 patient monitoring system, the invos cerebral/somatic oximetry systems, the bispectral index (bis) brain monitoring technology, and the invos cerebral/somatic oximeter. products providing solutions for the treatment of renal disease, including palindrome, mahurkar and mahurkar elite dialysis access catheters for renal therapy, and other products designed for use in treatment of both acute and chronic renal failure conditions. restorative therapies group the restorative therapies group is made up of the spine, brain therapies, specialty therapies, and pain therapies divisions. the primary medical specialists who use the products of this group include spinal surgeons, neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, anesthesiologists, orthopedic surgeons, urologists, colorectal surgeons, urogynecologists, interventional radiologists, and ear, nose, and throat specialists. spine our spine division develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive line of medical devices and implants used in the treatment of the spine and musculoskeletal system. our spine division also provides biologic solutions for the orthopedic and dental markets and, in concert with our neurosurgery business, offers unique and highly differentiated imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and mazor robotic guidance systems used in robot assisted spine procedures. principal products and services offered include: products to treat a variety of conditions affecting the spine, including degenerative disc disease, spinal deformity, spinal tumors, fractures of the spine, and stenosis. these products include our cd horizon legacy and elevate systems, and the capstone, clydesdale, and elevate interbody spacers. 5 table of contents products that facilitate less invasive thoracolumbar surgeries, including the cd horizon solera voyager and longitude percutaneous fixation systems. products to treat conditions in the cervical region of the spine, including the zevo and atlantis vision elite anterior cervical plate systems, the vertex select reconstruction system, the infinity oct system, and prestige lp cervical artificial discs. biologic solutions products, including our infuse bone graft (inductos in the european union (e.u.)), which contains a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein, rhbmp-2, for certain spinal, trauma, and oral maxillofacial applications. demineralized bone matrix products, including magnifuse, grafton/grafton plus, and progenix, and the mastergraft family of synthetic bone graft products - matrix, putty, and granules. brain therapies our brain therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets an integrated portfolio of devices and therapies for the treatment of neurological disorders and diseases, as well as surgical technologies designed to improve the precision and workflow of neuro procedures. principal products and services offered include: neurovascular products to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain. this includes coils, neurovascular stent retrievers, and flow diversion products, as well as access and delivery products to support procedures. products also include the pipeline flex embolization devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms, the portfolio of solitaire revascularization devices for treatment of acute ischemic stroke, the riptide aspiration system and a portfolio of associated access catheters also for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. brain modulation products, including those for the treatment of the disabling symptoms of parkinson's disease, essential tremor, refractory epilepsy, severe, treatment-resistant obsessive compulsive disorder (approved under a humanitarian device exemption (hde) in the u.s.), and chronic, intractable primary dystonia (approved under a hde in the u.s.). specifically, this includes our family of activa neurostimulators, including activa sc (single-channel primary cell battery), activa pc (dual channel primary cell battery), and activa rc (dual channel rechargeable battery). neurosurgery products, including platform technologies and implant therapies. our stealthstation s8 navigation system and o-arm imaging system are both platforms used in cranial, spinal, sinus, and orthopedic procedures. our midas rex surgical drills are used in cranial, spinal, ent, and orthopedic procedures. our csf management portfolio is used in treating hydrocephalus and other conditions impacting the intracranial pressure, and our visualase mri-guided laser ablation is used in cranial procedures. our mazor x robotic guidance systems are used in robot-assisted spine procedures and combine the best-in-class robotics and navigation capability. specialty therapies our specialty therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases of the ear, nose and throat (ent), help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. additionally, our specialty therapies division includes products in the emerging field of transformative solutions surgical incision technology, as well as the haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone. principal products and services offered include: pelvic health and gastric therapies products, including interstim, a neurostimulator, to help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. our nuro system delivers percutaneous tibial neuromodulation therapy to treat overactive bladder and associated symptoms of urinary urgency, urinary frequency, and urge incontinence. our enterra gastric neurostimulator is approved as a humanitarian device and is used for the treatment of chronic, intractable nausea and vomiting due to gastroparesis. ent products, including the straightshot m5 microdebrider handpiece, the ipc system, nim nerve monitoring systems, ent navigation system, as well as products for hearing restoration and obstructive sleep apnea. transformative solutions products, including our peak surgery system and aquamantys system. our peak surgery system is a tissue dissection system that consists of the peak plasmablade and pulsar generator and is cleared for use in a variety of settings, including plastic reconstructive surgery, general surgery, and certain conditions of ent. our aquamantys system uses patented transcollation technology to provide haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone and is cleared for use in a variety of surgical procedures, including orthopedic surgery, spine, solid organ resection and thoracic procedures. 6 table of contents pain therapies our pain therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets spinal cord stimulation systems, implantable drug infusion systems for chronic pain, as well as interventional products. principal products and services offered include: spinal cord stimulation products, including rechargeable and non-rechargeable devices and a large selection of leads used to treat chronic back and/or limb pain. this includes the intellis spinal cord stimulation system, with adaptivestim and surescan mri technology, the evolve workflow algorithm, and snapshot reporting. products also include our restoresensor (rechargeable) surescan mri, with its proprietary adaptivestim technology. implantable drug infusion systems, including our synchromed ii implantable infusion system, that deliver small quantities of drug directly into the intrathecal space surrounding the spinal cord. interventional products, including the xpander ii balloon kyphoplasty system, the kyphon-v vertebroplasty system and the osteocool rf tumor ablation system. the accurian nerve ablation system, which conducts radio frequency ablation of nerve tissues. diabetes group the diabetes group develops, manufactures, and markets products and services for the management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. the primary medical specialists who use and/or prescribe our diabetes products are endocrinologists and primary care physicians. principal products and services offered include: insulin pumps, including the minimed 670g system, which is the world's first hybrid closed loop system. the system, powered by smartguard technology, mimics some of the functions of a healthy pancreas by providing two levels of automated insulin delivery to maximize time in range with reduced user input. continuous glucose monitoring (cgm) systems, including the guardian connect smart cgm system and the ipro2 professional cgm, are products worn by patients capturing glucose data to reveal patterns and potential problems, such as hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic episodes. therapy management software, including carelink software for patients and for healthcare professionals, with advanced web technology to help patients and their health care providers control their diabetes and improve engagement. other factors impacting our operations research and development the markets in which we participate are subject to rapid technological advances. constant improvement of existing products and introduction of new products are necessary to maintain market leadership. our research and development (r&amp;d) efforts are directed toward maintaining or achieving technological leadership in each of the markets we serve in order to help ensure that patients using our devices and therapies receive the most advanced and effective treatment possible. we remain committed to developing technological enhancements and new indications for existing products, and less invasive and new technologies for new and emerging markets to address unmet patient needs. that commitment leads to our initiation and participation in many clinical trials each fiscal year as the demand for clinical and economic evidence remains high. furthermore, our development activities are intended to help reduce patient care costs and the length of hospital stays in the future. we have not engaged in significant customer or government-sponsored research. our r&amp;d activities include improving existing products and therapies, expanding their indications and applications for use, and developing new therapies and procedures. we continue to focus on optimizing innovation, improving our r&amp;d productivity, driving growth in emerging markets, clinical evidence generation, and assessing our r&amp;d programs based on their ability to deliver economic value to our customers. intellectual property we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. in addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses relating to a wide array of third-party technologies. in the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of 7 table of contents material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to any segment of our business or to our business as a whole. we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation may result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. at any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. for additional information, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. sales and distribution we sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the u.s. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the u.s. for certain portions of our business, we also sell through distributors in the u.s. our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, gpos and integrated delivery networks (idns) primarily through third-party distributors, although we also have direct sales representatives. we often negotiate with gpos and idns, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. our four largest markets are the u.s., western europe, japan, and china. emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity, as we believe they remain under-penetrated. our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide. to achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. this focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. we are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales. competition, industry and cost containment we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. our product lines face a mix of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. in addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems in the medical device industry. in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products. government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the u.s. these changes put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. government programs, including medicare and medicaid, private health care insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms. hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, centralized purchasing, and in some cases, limiting the number of vendors that may participate in the purchasing program. hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from changes in practice patterns such as device standardization. this has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. worldwide operations our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country. exchange rate fluctuations may affect revenues, earnings, and cash flows from operations. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and 8 table of contents cash flow. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. production and availability of raw materials we manufacture products at manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, due to the u.s. fda's manufacturing requirements, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials if we experience a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply and are unable to develop alternative sources. for additional information related to our manufacturing facilities refer to item 2. properties in this annual report on form 10-k. quality management and product liability our business success depends on the quality of our products, and we have global processes, procedures and programs, including our quality begins with me program, that are intended to help us maintain the highest possible level of quality in all products. we operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. these claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. working capital our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to meet the product delivery needs of our customers. we also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. employees on april 26, 2019 , we employed more than 90,000 full-time employees. our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits and our rewarding work environment. seasonality worldwide sales do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality. however, the number of medical procedures incorporating medtronic products is generally lower during summer months in the northern hemisphere due to summer vacation schedules, particularly in european countries. government regulation our operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda, european regulatory authorities such as the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency in the united kingdom (u.k.) and the federal institute for drugs and medical devices in germany, the china food and drug administration (cfda), and other government agencies inside and outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and post-marketing surveillance of our products. our business is also affected by patient privacy laws and government payer cost containment initiatives, as well as environmental health and safety laws and regulations. product approval and monitoring many countries where we sell medical devices subject such medical devices and technologies to their own approval and other regulatory requirements regarding performance, safety, and quality of our products. authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device in the u.s. is generally obtained in one of two ways. the first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. the second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval, requires us to independently demonstrate that a medical device is safe and effective for its intended use. this process is generally much more time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process. 9 table of contents in the european union (e.u.), a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the ce mark. to obtain a ce mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. the competent authorities of the e.u. countries separately regulate the clinical research for medical devices and the market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. a new medical device regulation was published by the e.u. in 2017 which will impose significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements. the regulation has a three-year implementation period to may 2020. after that time, medical devices marketed in the e.u. will require certification according to these new requirements, except that devices with valid ce certificates, issued pursuant to the medical device directives before may 2020, can be placed on the market until may 2024. the global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent and unpredictable. several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years, and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, their existing regulations. while harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. we expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact the cost, the time needed to approve, and ultimately, our ability to maintain existing approvals or obtain future approvals for our products. regulations of the u.s. fda and other regulatory agencies in and outside the u.s. impose extensive compliance and monitoring obligations on our business. these agencies review our design and manufacturing practices, labeling, record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. we are also subject to periodic inspections for compliance with applicable quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of finished medical devices intended for human use. in addition, the u.s. fda and other regulatory bodies, both in and outside the u.s. (including the federal trade commission, the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, the u.s. department of justice, and various state attorneys general), monitor the promotion and advertising of our products. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may limit our ability to effectively market and sell our products, limit our ability to obtain future premarket approvals or result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. for additional information, see "item 1a. risk factors" we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operation s. in april 2015, we entered into a consent decree with the u.s. fda relating to our pain therapies division's synchromed drug infusion system and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree requires us to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the synchromed pump and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree's limitations on our ability to manufacture and distribute the synchromed drug infusion system were lifted by the u.s. fda in september 2017. following the successful completion of the required third-party expert audits, and in coordination with the fda, the consent decree will be vacated. the company must undergo third-party audits and submit audit reports to the u.s. fda through 2020. in june 2016, tyrx received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the tyrx facility in monmouth junction, new jersey. the u.s. fda completed its follow up inspection to the warning letter in march 2018 and issued a form-483 with observations, although the u.s. fda noted in its closing meeting that there had been significant improvements made since the prior inspection. we have completed the commitments under the form-483 and have been communicating to the u.s. fda on the progress. the next step will be to signal readiness for inspection, which will occur at the medtronic rice creek facility in minneapolis, now that the manufacturing operations at monmouth junction have ceased. in june 2014, heartware inc. received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the heartware facility in miami lakes, florida. medtronic acquired heartware in august 2016, and implemented corrective actions and process improvements to address the items in the warning letter. in july 2018, heartware received a form-483 after a u.s. fda inspection and is implementing additional corrective actions, primarily related to the pioneer 2.0 controller, in response to the observations. we have been communicating monthly with the u.s. fda on the progress of the actions. in august 2018, we received two fda warning letters, one issued to the crhf facility in mounds view, mn, and the other issued to the juncos facility in puerto rico. the letters were limited to the blackwell icd and focused on the manufacturing and design processes for blackwell. medtronic has been working with the u.s. fda on resolving the open items and continues to make steady progress on implementing corrective actions. after the actions are complete, the u.s. fda will perform a reinspection in order to lift the warning letters. trade regulations the movement of products, services, and investment across borders subject us to extensive trade regulations. a variety of laws and regulations in the countries in which we transact business apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across borders. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import, export and other business activities. we are also subject to the risk that these laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. some governments also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. in addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. if we, or the third 10 table of contents parties through which we do business, are not in compliance with applicable import, export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability. such actions may disrupt or delay sales of our products or services or result in restrictions on our distribution and sales of products or services that may materially impact our business. anti-boycott laws under u.s. laws and regulations, u.s. companies and their subsidiaries and affiliates outside the u.s. are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the u.s. or between the u.s. and countries outside of the u.s. if we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, violate anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action and varying degrees of liability. data privacy and security laws and regulations as a business with a significant global footprint, compliance with evolving regulations and standards in data privacy and cybersecurity has resulted, and may continue to result, in increased costs, new compliance challenges, and the threat of increased regulatory enforcement activity. our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including personal information, protected health information, financial information, intellectual property and other sensitive information related to our customers and workforce. for example, in the u.s., the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of certain personal information and the security of medical devices are regulated at the u.s. federal and state, international and industry levels. u.s. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. privacy and security rules under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), as amended, and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act of 2009 (hitech), govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by covered entities, (which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses) and by their business associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the covered entity's workforce). rules under hipaa and hitech include specific security standards and breach notification requirements. the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) (through the office of civil rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to both the security and privacy rules, including civil and criminal liability. with the exception of certain of its operations in its diabetes and care management services businesses, medtronic is generally not a covered entity. medtronic also operates as a business associate to covered entities in a limited number of instances. there are comparable state laws governing the use and protection of personal health information by health care providers, and medtronic may be subject to these laws in certain of its businesses. in addition to the regulation of personal health information, a number of states have also adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and data security practices for other kinds of personally identifiable information, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of sensitive personal information, such as social security numbers, or that are designed to protect credit card account data. state consumer protection laws may also establish privacy and security standards for use and management of personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. outside the u.s., we are impacted by the privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. we serve customers in more than 150 countries. legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, handling and transfer of personal data and potentially intellectual property continue to evolve with increasingly strict enforcement regimes. more privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. in the e.u., stringent data protection and privacy rules which substantially impact the use of patient data across the healthcare industry became effective in may 2018. the e.u. general data protection regulation (gdpr) applies uniformly across the e.u. and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances and significant fines for non-compliance. the gdpr also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the e.u. to comply with e.u. privacy and data protection rules. because the laws and regulations continue to expand, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and are subject to evolving (and at times inconsistent) governmental interpretation, compliance with these laws and regulations may require significant additional cost expenditures or changes in products or business that increase competition or reduce revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop noncompliant activities. 11 table of contents regulations governing reimbursement the delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by hhs and comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. u.s. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with federally-funded health care programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs, as well as the government's interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. other governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. u.s. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under federally-funded health care programs, including laws related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and health care fraud. there are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. in some circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. further, as a result of the patient protection and affordable care act (the aca ), the u.s. is implementing value-based payment methodologies and seeking to create alternate payment models, such as bundled payments, to continue to drive improved value. environmental health and safety laws we are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the u.s. like other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. available information we maintain a website at www.medtronic.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are made available under the about medtronic - investors caption and financial information - sec filings subcaption of our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). information relating to our corporate governance, including our principles of corporate governance, code of conduct (including our code of ethics for senior financial officers), code of business conduct and ethics for members of the board of directors, and information concerning our executive officers, directors and board committees (including committee charters) is available through our website at www.medtronic.com under the about medtronic - corporate governance caption. information relating to transactions in medtronic securities by directors and officers is available through our website at www.medtronic.com under the about medtronic - investors caption and the financial information - sec filings subcaption. the information listed above may also be obtained upon request from the medtronic investor relations department, 710 medtronic parkway, minneapolis, mn 55432 usa. our website and the information contained on or connected to our website are not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the company, that file electronically with the sec. the public may obtain any documents that we file with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . we file annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the exchange act. item 1a. risk factors investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the sec. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. 12 table of contents risks relating to the company we operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. in the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. in addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. we believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: product performance and reliability, product technology and innovation, product quality and safety, breadth of product lines, product support services, customer support, cost-effectiveness and price, reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers, and changes to the regulatory environment. competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. in addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. these companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. from time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. further, our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success. reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. the manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of a sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. we manufacture the majority of our products and procure important third-party services, such as sterilization services, at numerous facilities worldwide. we purchase many of the components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, components and services. however, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture our products are obtained from a sole supplier. although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components, raw materials and services may be interrupted or insufficient. in addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of regulatory agencies, including the u.s. fda, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. we use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. a reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales. other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales and fulfillment systems for any reason, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, supplier facility shut-downs, defective raw materials, natural 13 table of contents disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes or wildfires, and other environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. for example, in the past we have experienced a global information technology systems interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes. furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues. in addition, several of our key products are manufactured or sterilized at a particular facility, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to or closure of one or more of such facilities, such as the damage caused by hurricane maria in puerto rico in september 2017, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products at the previous levels or at all. because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing or sterilization facility, a third-party may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing or sterilization capacity is lost. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the u.s. fda, u.s. department of justice, health and human services-office of the inspector general, and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials or the market's or u.s. fda's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may: take a significant amount of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and limit the proposed uses of our products. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under the u.s. fda and other applicable non-u.s. government agency regulations. for instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the u.s. fda to determine compliance with applicable regulations. the results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on the u.s. fda's form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could ban such medical products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-u.s governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the u.s. fda and other non-u.s. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into corporate integrity agreements (cias) with governmental agencies. in addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, the u.s. fda has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. 14 table of contents governmental regulations outside the u.s. have, and may continue to, become increasingly stringent and common. in the european union, for example, a new medical device regulation was published in 2017 which, when it enters into full force in 2020, will include significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company's business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental health care programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid and comparable non-u.s. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. as a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by hhs, including the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms), as well as comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services, including laws and regulations related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and health care fraud. many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. in certain circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing false claims. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. we are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the u.s. and around the world. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. we also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. at any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trade secrets or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and these licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. in addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in those countries. competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 15 table of contents quality problems and product liability claims could lead to recalls or safety alerts, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, and our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. in addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. component failures, manufacturing nonconformances, design defects, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products, if they were to occur, could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. these problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. due to the strong name recognition of the medtronic and covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. if we fall short of these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. if our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. in certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. our mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. the rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. in addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. we expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. health care policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the health care system, including u.s. health care reform legislation. certain of these proposals could, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. the adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. we continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with third-party insurers that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the company. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 table of contents if we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have experienced, and may continue to experience, decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payers on our customers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. if the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. we are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. we develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. operations in countries outside of the u.s. are accompanied by certain risks. we intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the u.s., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional and greater risks. our profitability and global operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates, healthcare reform legislation, the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, local product preferences and product requirements, longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s., trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the u.s. than exists in the u.s., different labor regulations and workforce instability, political and economic instability, the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit . as a result of the referendum, the british government began negotiations with the e.u. on the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. brexit was due to take place on march 29, 2019, however, the inability to agree on the exact terms of the future relationship have delayed brexit and led to continued uncertainty about brexit's potential impacts on the company. it is possible that as a result of brexit there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and e.u. countries and increased regulatory complexities that could adversely impact the company. similarly, from time to time proposals are made in the u.s. to significantly change existing trade agreements and relationships between the u.s. and other countries, although we cannot currently predict whether or how these changes will be implemented over time. changes to global trade policy, including between the u.s. and other countries such as china and mexico, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. in light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. the failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), the irish criminal justice (corruption offences) act 2018, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. we also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe. 17 table of contents global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by u.s. and non-u.s. governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. it is our policy to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements and prohibit improper practices. however, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. in addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for fcpa violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business. the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac), and the bureau of industry and security at the u.s. department of commerce (bis), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict u.s. persons and, in some instances, non-u.s. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to u.s. economic sanctions. our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals, and are constantly changing. further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including iran, sudan, syria, cuba and the region of crimea. certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. these business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. many health care industry companies, including health care systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. as the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. if we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. health care industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components. most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. the continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. if third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. the cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the u.s. and outside of the u.s., could harm our ability to operate profitably. for example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and gpos and idns have also concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us. we are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. our operations and those of certain third-party suppliers involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, 18 table of contents primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. if we or our suppliers violate these environmental laws and regulations, facilities could be shut down and violators could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. furthermore, environmental laws outside of the u.s. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. in addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. the research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. if we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position . we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, including to process, transmit and store sensitive data, and many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to our systems. like other large multi-national corporations, we could experience, and in the past have experienced, attempted or actual interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems, as well as data breaches, such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference with the integrity of our products and data or other significant disruptions. furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. these third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. in addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in their systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems. our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. the variety of u.s. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in item 1. business" - other factors impacting our operations - data privacy and security laws and regulations . for example, gdpr requires us to manage personal data in the e.u. and may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue in the event of certain violations. furthermore, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber-attacks. any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. in addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep 19 table of contents pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. if our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, and we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. at april 26, 2019, we had approximately $0.8 billion of current debt obligations and $24.5 billion of long-term debt outstanding. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, and exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our floating rate notes and revolving credit facility is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several significant acquisitions in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. these efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential fcpa liability, any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, our ability to retain key employees, and the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. we also could experience negative effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. these effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 20 table of contents changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the u.s., ireland, and various other jurisdictions in which we operate. the tax laws in the u.s., ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and our effective tax rate. for example, on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"), which resulted in a significant charge to tax expense during our fiscal year 2018 associated with the u.s. taxation of accumulated foreign earnings as well as the requirement to revalue u.s. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the reduction in the u.s. corporate tax rate. the u.s. treasury is expected to issue additional subsequent guidance and interpretation of the tax act. this guidance could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the government in switzerland is currently considering tax reform legislation, the results of which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in 2013, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) published an action plan called base erosion and profit shifting (beps) with a view to tackling perceived tax abuse and inconsistency between taxing authorities and their approach to international tax matters. the final beps action report was published in october 2015 and subsequently many taxing authorities have adopted the guidelines provided within their local laws. the eu expanded upon these guidelines with anti-tax avoidance directives (atad 1 and 2) to be applied by all its member states by 2020. we continue to monitor any and all changes to local country legislation resulting from this guidance. one specific change is a requirement for increased disclosures of financial information on a local and global basis. this information could lead to disagreements between jurisdictions associated with the proper allocation of profits between such jurisdictions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the medtronic, inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. in march 2009, the irs issued its audit report for medtronic inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. medtronic, inc. reached agreements with the irs on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. the remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. an adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k. future potential changes to the u.s. tax laws could result in us being treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and the irs may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s federal income tax purposes. because medtronic plc is organized under the laws of ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. even so, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). under section 7874 of the code, if medtronic inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the covidien transaction held 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction did not have substantial business activities in ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would have been treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. based on the rules for determining share ownership under section 7874 of the code, medtronic, inc.'s 21 table of contents shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. therefore, under current law, medtronic plc should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of u.s. federal or state governmental contracts to u.s. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation we are incorporated in ireland, and irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the u.s. as an irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit medtronic's flexibility to manage its capital structure. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. accordingly, our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, provisions authorizing the board to issue new shares, and to disapply statutory preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the disapplication of statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and our current authorizations are due to expire in january 2020. we anticipate seeking new authorizations at our 2019 annual general meeting and in subsequent years. we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. a transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the depository trust company, may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company (dtc) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. the potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares. 22 table of contents in certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and other specified countries that have a tax treaty with ireland may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through dtc will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. shareholders entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with ireland other than their shareholding in our company (for example, they are resident in ireland). shareholders who receive dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends. our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax (cat) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold which irish revenue typically updates annually in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk currency exchange rate risk due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes which may cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flows. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. in order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. these contracts are designed to hedge anticipated transactions in other currencies and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. at inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. the primary currencies of our derivative instruments are the euro, japanese yen, and british pound. fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. we do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes. the gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at april 26, 2019 and april 27, 2018 was $11.1 billion and $11.5 billion , respectively. at april 26, 2019 , these contracts were in a net unrealized gain position of $322 million. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at april 26, 2019 indicates that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase/decrease by approximately $916 million. any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. these offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we began accounting for our operations in argentina as highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100 percent. the change did not have a material impact on our results for fiscal year 2019. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. our debt portfolio at april 26, 2019 was comprised of debt predominately denominated in u.s. dollars and the euro, of which substantially all is fixed rate debt. we are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements, and forward starting interest rate swap agreements. a sensitivity analysis of the impact on our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, as compared to interest rates at april 26, 2019 , indicates that the fair value of these instruments would correspondingly change by $49 million. for a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the liquidity section of the management's discussion and analysis in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional discussion of market risk, see notes 6 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors in this annual report on form 10-k, as well as those related to: the covid-19 pandemic and the actions of businesses, communities and governments in response; competition in the medical device industry; reduction or interruption in our supply; laws and governmental regulations; quality problems; liquidity shortfalls; decreasing prices and pricing pressure; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes in applicable tax rates; 1 table of contents positions taken by taxing authorities; adverse regulatory action; delays in regulatory approvals; litigation results; self-insurance; commercial insurance; healthcare policy changes; international operations; cybersecurity incidents; failure to complete or achieve the intended benefits of acquisitions or divestitures; or disruption of our current plans and operations. consequently, no forward-looking statement may be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. we intend to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 regarding our forward-looking statements, and are including this sentence for the express purpose of enabling us to use the protections of the safe harbor with respect to all forward-looking statements. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business medtronic plc, headquartered in dublin, ireland, is among the world's largest medical technology, services, and solutions companies - alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world. medtronic was founded in 1949 and today serves hospitals, physicians, clinicians, and patients in more than 150 countries worldwide. we remain committed to a mission written by our founder in 1960 that directs us to contribute to human welfare by the application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of products to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. with innovation and market leadership, we have pioneered advances in medical technology. our commitment to enhance our offerings by developing and acquiring new products, wrap-around programs, and solutions to meet the needs of a broader set of stakeholders is driven by the following primary strategies: therapy innovation: delivering a strong launch cadence of meaningful therapies and procedures. globalization: addressing the inequity in healthcare access globally, primarily in emerging markets. economic value: becoming a leader in value-based healthcare by offering new services and solutions to improve outcomes and efficiencies, lower costs by reducing hospitalizations, improve remote clinical management, and increase patient engagement. our primary customers include hospitals, clinics, third-party healthcare providers, distributors, and other institutions, including governmental healthcare programs and group purchasing organizations (gpos). medtronic plc is the successor to medtronic, inc., a minnesota corporation. medtronic, inc. and covidien plc (covidien) were combined under and became subsidiaries of medtronic plc on january 26, 2015. on july 29, 2017, we completed the divestiture of our patient care, deep vein thrombosis, and nutritional insufficiency businesses (the divestiture). among the product lines included in the divestiture were the dental and animal health, chart paper, wound care, incontinence, electrodes, sharpsafety, thermometry, perinatal protection, blood collection, compression, and enteral feeding offerings. prior to the divestiture, these businesses were included within the minimally invasive therapies group segment. we have four operating and reportable segments that primarily develop, manufacture, distribute, and sell device-based medical therapies and services: the cardiac and vascular group, the minimally invasive therapies group, the restorative therapies group, and the diabetes group. for more information regarding our segments, please see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k. 3 table of contents cardiac and vascular group the cardiac and vascular group is made up of the cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure, coronary &amp; structural heart, and aortic, peripheral &amp; venous divisions. the primary medical specialists who use our cardiac and vascular products include electrophysiologists, implanting cardiologists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular, cardiothoracic, and vascular surgeons, and interventional cardiologists and radiologists. cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure our cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure division develops, manufactures, and markets products for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of heart rhythm disorders and heart failure. our products include implantable devices, leads and delivery systems, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (af), products designed to reduce surgical site infections, information systems for the management of patients with cardiac rhythm &amp; heart failure devices, ventricular assist systems, and an integrated health solutions business. principal products and services offered include: implantable cardiac pacemakers including the azure mri surescan, adapta, advisa mri surescan, micra transcatheter pacing system, which is leadless and does not have a subcutaneous device pocket like a conventional pacemaker, and micra av, which can treat patients with atrioventricular block. implantable cardioverter defibrillators (icds), including the visia af, evera mri surescan, and the cobalt and chrome portfolio of bluesync-enabled icds, as well as defibrillator leads, including the sprint quattro secure lead. implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (crt-ds and crt-ps) including the claria/amplia/compia family of mri quad crt-d surescan systems and the cobalt and chrome portfolio of bluesync-enabled crt-ds, as well as the percepta/serena/solara family of mri quad crt-p surescan systems. af ablation products including the arctic front cardiac cryoablation catheter system, designed for pulmonary vein isolation in the treatment of patients with drug refractory paroxysmal af. insertable cardiac monitoring systems including the reveal linq, which is used to record the heart's electrical activity before, during, and after transient symptoms such as syncope (i.e. fainting) and palpitations to assist in diagnosis. mechanical circulatory support products including miniaturized implantable heart pumps, or ventricular assist devices, patient accessories and surgical tools to treat patients suffering from advanced heart failure. tyrx products including the cardiac and neuro absorbable antibacterial envelopes, which are designed to stabilize electronic implantable devices and help prevent infection associated with implantable pacemakers, and defibrillators. remote monitoring services and patient-centered software to enable efficient care coordination and specialized telehealth nurse support as well as services related to hospital operational efficiency. coronary &amp; structural heart our coronary &amp; structural heart division includes therapies to treat coronary artery disease and heart valve disorders. our products include coronary stents and related delivery systems, including a broad line of balloon angioplasty catheters, guide catheters, guide wires, diagnostic catheters, and accessories, as well as products for the repair and replacement of heart valves, perfusion systems, positioning and stabilization systems for beating heart revascularization surgery, and surgical ablation products. principal products offered include: corevalve family of aortic valves, including the evolut r, evolut pro, and evolut pro+ systems for transcatheter aortic valve replacement. percutaneous coronary intervention stent products including our resolute onyx drug-eluting stent. 4 table of contents surgical valve replacement and repair products for damaged or diseased heart valves, including both tissue and mechanical valves, blood-handling products that form a circulatory support system to maintain and monitor blood circulation and coagulation status, oxygen supply, and body temperature during arrested heart surgery, and surgical ablation systems and positioning and stabilization technologies. aortic, peripheral &amp; venous our aortic, peripheral &amp; venous division is comprised of a comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat aortic disease, such as aneurysms, dissections, and transections, as well as peripheral vascular disease, and venous disease. our products include endovascular stent graft systems, peripheral drug coated balloons, stent and angioplasty systems, and carotid embolic protection systems for the treatment of vascular disease outside the heart, and products for superficial and deep venous disease. principal products offered include: endovascular stent grafts and accessories including the endurant ii stent grant system for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms, the valiant navion thoracic stent grant system for thoracic endovascular aortic repair procedures, and the heli-fx endoanchor system. percutaneous angioplasty balloons including the in.pact family of drug-coated balloons, vascular stents, directional atherectomy products, and other procedure support tools. products to treat superficial venous diseases in the lower extremities including the closurefast radiofrequency ablation system and the venaseal medical adhesive closure system. minimally invasive therapies group the minimally invasive therapies group is made up of the surgical innovations and respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal divisions. products and therapies of this group are used primarily by hospitals, physicians' offices, ambulatory care centers, and other alternate site healthcare providers. while less frequent, some products and therapies are also used in home settings. surgical innovations our surgical innovations division develops, manufactures, and markets advanced and general surgical products including surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, and gynecology products and therapies to treat diseases and conditions that are typically, but not exclusively, addressed by surgeons. principal products and services offered include: advanced stapling and energy products, including the tri-staple technology platform for endoscopic stapling, including the endo gia reloads and reinforced reloads with tri-staple technology and the endo gia ultra universal stapler, the ligasure exact dissector and l-hook laparoscopic sealer/divider, and the sonicision curved jaw cordless ultrasonic dissection system. electrosurgical hardware and instruments, including the valleylab ft10 energy platform, and the force triverse electrosurgical pencils, and surgical artificial intelligence (ai), data and analytics, and digital education and training to support robotic assisted surgery platform. products designed for the treatment of hernias, including the absorbatack absorbable mesh fixation device for hernia repair, the symbotex composite mesh for surgical laparoscopic and open ventral hernia repair, and parietex progrip, a self-gripping, biocompatible solution for inguinal hernias. 5 table of contents respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal our respiratory, gastrointestinal, &amp; renal division develops, manufactures, and markets products in the emerging fields of minimally invasive gastrointestinal and hepatologic diagnostics and therapies, patient monitoring, respiratory interventions including airway management and ventilation therapies, and for the treatment of renal disease. principal products and services offered include: gastrointestinal and endoscopy products, including the pillcam portfolio, the bravo calibration-free reflux testing systems, the endoflip imaging systems, the emprint ablation system with thermosphere technology, the barrx platform through ablation with the barrx 360 express catheter, the cool-tip radiofrequency ablation system, and the het bipolar system. airway, ventilation, and inhalation therapies products, including the puritan bennett 980, 840, and 560 ventilators, the newport e360 and ht70 ventilators, the taperguard evac tube, shiley endotracheal tubes, shiley tracheostomy tubes, mcgrath mac video laryngoscopes, and dar filters. products focused on patient monitoring, including capnostream capnography monitors, nellcor pulse oximetry monitors, invos cerebral/somatic oximetry systems, and bispectral index (bis) brain monitoring technology. products providing solutions for the treatment of renal disease, including palindrome, mahurkar and mahurkar elite dialysis access catheters for renal therapy, and other products designed for use in treatment of both acute and chronic renal failure conditions. restorative therapies group the restorative therapies group is made up of the brain therapies, spine, specialty therapies, and pain therapies divisions. the primary medical specialists who use the products of this group include spinal surgeons, neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, anesthesiologists, orthopedic surgeons, urologists, colorectal surgeons, urogynecologists, interventional radiologists, and ear, nose, and throat specialists. brain therapies our brain therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets an integrated portfolio of devices and therapies for the treatment of neurological disorders and diseases, as well as surgical technologies designed to improve the precision and workflow of neuro procedures. principal products and services offered include: neurovascular products to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain. this includes coils, neurovascular stent retrievers, and flow diversion products, as well as access and delivery products to support procedures. products also include the pipeline flex embolization devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms, the portfolio of solitaire revascularization devices for treatment of acute ischemic stroke, the riptide aspiration system and a portfolio of associated access catheters including our react aspiration catheters also for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. brain modulation products, including those for the treatment of the disabling symptoms of parkinson's disease, essential tremor, refractory epilepsy, severe, treatment-resistant obsessive compulsive disorder (approved under a humanitarian device exemption (hde) in the u.s.), and chronic, intractable primary dystonia (approved under a hde in the u.s.). specifically, this includes our family of activa neurostimulators, including activa sc (single-channel primary cell battery), activa pc (dual channel primary cell battery), and activa rc (dual channel rechargeable battery). this also includes our percept pc neurostimulator dbs system with brainsense technology, which received ce mark approval in january of 2020. 6 table of contents neurosurgery products, including platform technologies, implant therapies, and advanced energy products. our stealthstation s8 navigation system, stealth autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform, and o-arm imaging system are platforms used in cranial, spinal, sinus, and orthopedic procedures. our mazor x robotic guidance systems are used in robot-assisted spine procedures and combine the best-in-class robotics and navigation capability. our midas rex surgical drills, including our new mr8 high-speed drill system, are used in cranial, spinal, ent, and orthopedic procedures. our csf management portfolio is used in treating hydrocephalus and other conditions impacting the intracranial pressure, and our visualase mri-guided laser ablation is used in cranial procedures. our peak surgery system and aquamantys sealers are advanced energy products. our peak surgery system is a tissue dissection system that consists of the peak plasmablade and pulsar generator and is cleared for use in a variety of settings, including plastic reconstructive surgery, general surgery, and certain conditions of ent. our aquamantys sealers use patented transcollation technology to provide haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone and are cleared for use in a variety of surgical procedures, including orthopedic surgery, spine, solid organ resection and thoracic procedures. spine our spine division develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive line of medical devices and implants used in the treatment of the spine and musculoskeletal system. our spine division also provides biologic solutions for the orthopedic and dental markets and, in concert with our neurosurgery business, offers unique and highly differentiated imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and mazor robotic guidance systems used in robot assisted spine procedures. principal products and services offered include: products to treat a variety of conditions affecting the spine, including degenerative disc disease, spinal deformity, spinal tumors, fractures of the spine, and stenosis. these products include our cd horizon solera system, t2 strastosphere, and the clydesdale, and elevate interbody spacers. these products also include titanium interbody implants and surface technologies from titan spine, acquired in june of 2019. products that facilitate less invasive thoracolumbar surgeries, including the cd horizon solera voyager and longitude percutaneous fixation systems. products to treat conditions in the cervical region of the spine, including the zevo anterior cervical plate system, the infinity oct system, and prestige lp cervical artificial discs. biologic solutions products, including our infuse bone graft (inductos in the european union (e.u.)), which contains a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein, rhbmp-2, for certain spinal, trauma, and oral maxillofacial applications. demineralized bone matrix products, including magnifuse, grafton/grafton plus, corex, and progenix, and the mastergraft family of synthetic bone graft products - matrix, putty, and granules. specialty therapies our specialty therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases of the ear, nose and throat (ent), help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. principal products and services offered include: pelvic health and gastric therapies products, including our interstim, interstim micro, and interstim ii neurostimulators, and interstim surescan mri leads, to help control the systems of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. our nuro system delivers percutaneous tibial neuromodulation therapy to treat overactive bladder and associated symptoms of urinary urgency, urinary frequency, and urge incontinence. our enterra gastric neurostimulator is approved as a humanitarian device and is used for the treatment of chronic, intractable nausea and vomiting due to gastroparesis. ent products, including the straightshot m5 microdebrider handpiece, the ipc system, nim nerve monitoring systems, fusion compact and stealthstation ent navigation system, as well as products for hearing restoration and obstructive sleep apnea. pain therapies our pain therapies division develops, manufactures, and markets spinal cord stimulation systems, implantable drug infusion systems for chronic pain, as well as interventional products. principal products and services offered include: spinal cord stimulation products, including rechargeable and non-rechargeable devices and a large selection of leads used to treat chronic back and/or limb pain. this includes the intellis spinal cord stimulation system, with 7 table of contents adaptivestim and surescan mri technology, dtm (differential target multiplexed) proprietary waveform, the evolve workflow algorithm, and snapshot reporting. products also include our restoresensor (rechargeable) surescan mri neurostimulation system, with its proprietary adaptivestim technology. implantable drug infusion systems, including our synchromed ii implantable infusion system, that deliver small quantities of drug directly into the intrathecal space surrounding the spinal cord. interventional products, including the xpander ii balloon kyphoplasty system, the kyphon-v vertebroplasty system and the osteocool rf tumor ablation system. the accurian nerve ablation system, which conducts radio frequency ablation of nerve tissues. diabetes group the diabetes group develops, manufactures, and markets products and services for the management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. the primary medical specialists who use and/or prescribe our diabetes products are endocrinologists and primary care physicians. principal products and services offered include: insulin pumps, including the minimed 670g system, which is the world's first hybrid closed loop system. the system, powered by smartguard technology, mimics some of the functions of a healthy pancreas by providing two levels of automated insulin delivery to maximize time in range with reduced user input. continuous glucose monitoring (cgm) systems, including the guardian connect smart cgm system, the ipro2 professional cgm, and the envision pro professional cgm, are products worn by patients capturing glucose data to reveal patterns and potential problems, such as hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic episodes. other factors impacting our operations covid-19 pandemic the global covid-19 pandemic, together with the preventative and precautionary measures taken by businesses, communities and governments, is impacting, and we expect will continue to impact significant aspects of our company and business, including demand for our products, our operations, supply chains and distribution systems, and our ability to research and develop and bring new products and services to market. see item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. research and development the markets in which we participate are subject to rapid technological advances. constant improvement of existing products and introduction of new products is necessary to maintain market leadership. our research and development (r&amp;d) efforts are directed toward maintaining or achieving technological leadership in each of the markets we serve in order to help ensure that patients using our devices and therapies receive the most advanced and effective treatment possible. we remain committed to developing technological enhancements and new indications for existing products, and less invasive and new technologies for new and emerging markets to address unmet patient needs. that commitment leads to our initiation and participation in many clinical trials each fiscal year as the demand for clinical and economic evidence remains high. furthermore, our development activities are intended to help reduce patient care costs and the length of hospital stays in the future. we have not engaged in significant customer or government-sponsored research. 8 table of contents our r&amp;d activities include improving existing products and therapies, expanding their indications and applications for use, and developing new therapies and procedures. we continue to focus on optimizing innovation, improving our r&amp;d productivity, driving growth in emerging markets, clinical evidence generation, and assessing our r&amp;d programs based on their ability to deliver economic value to our customers. intellectual property we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and agreements (non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) to protect our business and proprietary technology. in addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses relating to a wide array of third-party technologies. in the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to any segment of our business or to our business as a whole. we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation may result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. at any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. for additional information, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. sales and distribution we sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the u.s. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the u.s. for certain portions of our business, we also sell through distributors in the u.s. our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, gpos and integrated delivery networks (idns). we often negotiate with gpos and idns, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. our four largest markets are the u.s., western europe, china, and japan. emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity, as we believe they remain under-penetrated. our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide. to achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. this focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. we are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales. competition, industry and cost containment we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. our product lines face a mix of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. in addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, results of clinical trials to support superiority claims, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems in the medical device industry. in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products. government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the u.s. these initiatives put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. government programs, including medicare and medicaid, private healthcare insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms. hospitals, which purchase our technology, are also seeking to reduce 9 table of contents costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, centralized purchasing, and in some cases, limiting the number of vendors that may participate in the purchasing program. hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from changes in practice patterns such as device standardization. this has created an increased level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. worldwide operations our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country. exchange rate fluctuations may affect revenues, earnings, and cash flows from operations. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. production and availability of raw materials we manufacture products at manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. however, due to the u.s. fda's manufacturing requirements, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials if we experience a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply and are unable to develop alternative sources. for additional information related to our manufacturing facilities refer to item 2. properties in this annual report on form 10-k. quality management and product liability our business success depends on the quality of our products, and we have global processes, procedures and programs, including our quality begins with me program, that are intended to help us maintain the highest possible level of quality in all products. we operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. these claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. working capital our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to meet the product delivery needs of our customers. we also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. employees on april 24, 2020, we employed more than 90,000 full-time employees. our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits and our rewarding work environment. seasonality worldwide sales do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality. however, the number of medical procedures incorporating medtronic products is generally lower during summer months in the northern hemisphere due to summer vacation schedules, particularly in european countries. government regulation our operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, including the u.s. fda, european regulatory authorities such as the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency in the united kingdom (u.k.) and the federal institute for drugs and medical devices in germany, the china national medical product administration (nmpa) , and other government agencies inside and outside the u.s. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, 10 table of contents distribution and post-marketing surveillance of our products. our business is also affected by patient privacy laws and government payer cost containment initiatives, as well as environmental health and safety laws and regulations. product approval and monitoring many countries where we sell medical devices subject such medical devices and technologies to their own approval and other regulatory requirements regarding performance, safety, and quality of our products. authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device in the u.s. is generally obtained in one of two ways. the first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. the second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval, requires us to independently demonstrate that a medical device is safe and effective for its intended use. this process is generally much more time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process. in the e.u., a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the ce mark. to obtain a ce mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. the competent authorities of the e.u. countries separately regulate the clinical research for medical devices and the market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. a new medical device regulation was published by the e.u. in 2017 which imposes significant additional premarket and postmarket requirements (eu mdr). the regulation initially provided a three-year implementation period to may 2020, but that timeline has been delayed to may 2021 due to covid-19 and its impact on audits and technical file review by notified bodies. after that time, medical devices marketed in the e.u. will require certification according to these new requirements, except that devices with valid ce certificates, issued pursuant to the medical device directives before may 2020, can be placed on the market until may 2024. the global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent and unpredictable. several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years, and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, their existing regulations. while harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. we expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact the cost, the time needed to approve, and ultimately, our ability to maintain existing approvals or obtain future approvals for our products. regulations of the u.s. fda and other regulatory agencies in and outside the u.s. impose extensive compliance and monitoring obligations on our business. these agencies review our design and manufacturing practices, labeling, record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. we are also subject to periodic inspections for compliance with applicable quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of finished medical devices intended for human use. in addition, the u.s. fda and other regulatory bodies, both in and outside the u.s. (including the federal trade commission, the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, the u.s. department of justice, and various state attorneys general), monitor the promotion and advertising of our products. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may limit our ability to effectively market and sell our products, limit our ability to obtain future premarket approvals or result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. for additional information, see "item 1a. risk factors" we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operation s. in april 2015, we entered into a consent decree with the u.s. fda relating to our pain therapies division's synchromed ii drug infusion system and its associated quality system. the consent decree requires us to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the synchromed pump and the neuromodulation quality system. the consent decree's limitations on our ability to manufacture and distribute the synchromed drug infusion system were lifted by the u.s. fda in september 2017. following the successful completion of the required third-party expert audits and subsequent fda inspection, and in coordination with the fda, medtronic can move to have the consent decree vacated. the company must undergo third-party audits and submit audit reports to the u.s. fda through calendar 2020. in june 2016, tyrx received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the tyrx facility in monmouth junction, new jersey. the u.s. fda completed its follow up inspection to the warning letter in march 2018 and issued a form-483 with observations. fda completed its warning letter reinspection at the tyrx facility in minneapolis, since the manufacturing operations at monmouth junction have ceased. the inspection concluded in march 2020 with zero observations, and in april 2020 the warning letter was lifted by fda. in june 2014, heartware inc. received a warning letter from the u.s. fda following an inspection at the heartware facility in miami lakes, florida. medtronic acquired heartware in august 2016, and implemented corrective actions and process improvements to address the items in the warning letter. in july 2018, heartware received a form-483 after a u.s. fda inspection and is implementing additional corrective actions, primarily related to the pioneer 2.0 controller, in response to the observations. we have been communicating monthly with the u.s. fda on the progress of the actions and the timing for reinspection. in august 2018, we received two fda warning letters, one 11 table of contents issued to the crhf facility in mounds view, mn, and the other issued to the juncos facility in puerto rico. the letters were limited to the blackwell icd and focused on the manufacturing and design processes for blackwell. reinspection was completed at juncos in november 2019 and resulted in four 483 observations. reinspection was completed at mounds view in january 2020 and resulted in zero 483 observations. both the juncos and mounds view warning letters were lifted in february 2020. trade regulations the movement of products, services, and investment across borders subject us to extensive trade regulations. a variety of laws and regulations in the countries in which we transact business apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across borders. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import, export and other business activities. we are also subject to the risk that these laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. some governments also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. in addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. if we, or the third parties through which we do business, are not in compliance with applicable import, export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability. such actions may disrupt or delay sales of our products or services or result in restrictions on our distribution and sales of products or services that may materially impact our business. anti-boycott laws under u.s. laws and regulations, u.s. companies and their subsidiaries and affiliates outside the u.s. are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the u.s. or between the u.s. and countries outside of the u.s. if we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, violate anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action and varying degrees of liability. data privacy and security laws and regulations as a business with a significant global footprint, compliance with evolving regulations and standards in data privacy and cybersecurity has resulted, and may continue to result, in increased costs, new compliance challenges, and the threat of increased regulatory enforcement activity. our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including personal information, protected health information, financial information, intellectual property and other sensitive information related to our customers and workforce. for example, in the u.s., the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of certain personal information and the security of medical devices are regulated at the u.s. federal and state, international and industry levels. u.s. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by healthcare providers. privacy and security rules under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), as amended, and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act of 2009 (hitech), govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by covered entities, (which are healthcare providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses) and by their business associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the covered entity's workforce). rules under hipaa and hitech include specific security standards and breach notification requirements. the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) (through the office of civil rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to both the security and privacy rules, including civil and criminal liability. with the exception of certain of its operations in its diabetes and care management services businesses, medtronic is generally not a covered entity. medtronic also operates as a business associate to covered entities in a limited number of instances. there are comparable state laws governing the use and protection of personal health information by healthcare providers, and medtronic may be subject to these laws in certain of its businesses. in addition to the regulation of personal health information, a number of states have also adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and data security practices for other kinds of personally identifiable information, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of sensitive personal information, such as social security numbers, or that are designed to protect credit card account data. state consumer protection laws may also establish privacy and security standards for use and management of personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. outside the u.s., we are impacted by the privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. we serve customers in more than 150 countries. legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, handling and transfer of personal data and potentially intellectual property continue to evolve 12 table of contents with increasingly strict enforcement regimes. more privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. in the e.u., stringent data protection and privacy rules which substantially impact the use of patient data across the healthcare industry became effective in may 2018. the e.u. general data protection regulation (gdpr) applies uniformly across the e.u. and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances and significant fines for non-compliance. the gdpr also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the e.u. to comply with e.u. privacy and data protection rules. because the laws and regulations continue to expand, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and are subject to evolving (and at times inconsistent) governmental interpretation, compliance with these laws and regulations may require significant additional cost expenditures or changes in products or business that increase competition or reduce revenue. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop noncompliant activities. regulations governing reimbursement the delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by hhs and comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare items and services. u.s. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with federally funded healthcare programs, such as the medicare and medicaid programs, as well as the government's interest in regulating the quality and cost of healthcare. other governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare items and services. u.s. federal healthcare laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under federally-funded healthcare programs, including laws related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and healthcare fraud. there are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded medicaid and other healthcare programs and private third-party payers. in some circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. further, as a result of the patient protection and affordable care act (the aca ), the u.s. is implementing value-based payment methodologies and seeking to create alternate payment models, such as bundled payments, to continue to drive improved value. environmental health and safety laws we are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the u.s. like other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. available information we maintain a website at www.medtronic.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are made available under the about medtronic - investors caption and financial information - sec filings subcaption of our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). information relating to our corporate governance, including our principles of corporate governance, code of conduct (including our code of ethics for senior financial officers), code of business conduct and ethics for members of the board of directors, and information concerning our executive officers, directors and board committees (including committee charters) is available through our website at www.medtronic.com under the about medtronic - corporate governance caption. information relating to transactions in medtronic securities by directors and officers is available through our website at www.medtronic.com under the about medtronic - investors caption and the financial information - sec filings subcaption. the information listed above may also be obtained upon request from the medtronic investor relations department, 710 medtronic parkway, minneapolis, mn 55432 usa. 13 table of contents our website and the information contained on or connected to our website are not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the company, that file electronically with the sec. the public may obtain any documents that we file with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . we file annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the sec under the exchange act. item 1a. risk factors investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the sec. furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. risks relating to the company the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) has had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, the nature and extent of which are highly uncertain and unpredictable. our global operations and interactions with healthcare systems, providers and patients around the world expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as covid-19. in particular, the continuing global spread of covid-19, including corresponding preventative and precautionary measures that we and other businesses, communities and governments are taking to mitigate the spread of the disease, has led to unprecedented restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on business and personal activities. further, in addition to travel restrictions put in place in early 2020, countries, states and governments may continue to close borders, impose prolonged quarantines or other restrictions and requirements on travel, and further limit our ability to conduct business in-person as we did prior to covid-19, requiring businesses, including our business, to use alternative methods of communication. it is likely the covid-19 pandemic will cause an economic slowdown of potentially extended duration, and it is possible that it could cause a global recession. together with the preventative and precautionary measures being taken, as well as the corresponding need to adapt to new and different methods of communication and conducting business, covid-19 is having, and will likely continue to have, an adverse impact on significant aspects of our company and business, including on demand for and supply of our products, operations, supply chains and distribution systems, our ability to research and develop and bring to market new products and services, and our ability to generate cash flow, and may have an adverse impact on our ability to access capital. some of our products are particularly sensitive to reductions in deferrable and emergent medical procedures, and, as hospital systems prioritize treatment of covid-19 patients and otherwise comply with government guidelines, certain medical procedures have been suspended or postponed in many of the markets where our products are marketed and sold, which has caused a reduction in sales of these products. the company has certain product lines that are in higher demand as a result of covid-19 such as ventilators, pulse oximetry, capnography, advanced parameter monitoring, and extracorporeal life support products. it is not possible to predict the timing of a broad resumption of deferrable medical procedures and, to the extent individuals and hospital systems continue to de-prioritize, delay or cancel these procedures, or if unemployment or loss of insurance coverage adversely impacts an individual's ability to pay for our products and services, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations would continue to be negatively affected. further, the covid-19 pandemic is straining hospital systems around the world, resulting in adverse financial impacts to those systems that could result in reduced future expenditures for capital equipment and other products and services we provide, as well as disruption of product launches of our recently approved products. clinical trials generally have suspended enrollment due to facility closures and governmental restrictions, which we expect will delay the results from those clinical trials and will impact our ability to timely develop and bring to market new products. in addition, a significant number of our global suppliers, vendors, distributors and manufacturing facilities have been adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic, including by adversely impacting the ability of their employees to get to their places of work and maintain the continuity of their on-site operations. these impacts could impair our ability to move our products through distribution channels to end customers, and any such delay or shortage in the supply of components or materials may result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner or at all, which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. in addition, covid-19 has impacted and may further impact the global economy and capital markets, including by negatively impacting demand for a number of our products, access to capital markets (including the commercial paper market), foreign 14 table of contents currency exchange rates, and interest rates, each of which may adversely impact our business and liquidity. we could experience loss of sales and profits due to delayed payments or insolvency of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers, suppliers and vendors facing liquidity issues. as a result, we may be compelled to take additional measures to preserve our cash flow. in addition, covid-19 could adversely impact our ability to retain key employees and the continued service and availability of skilled personnel necessary to run our complex productions and operations, including our executive officers and other members of our management team, as well as the ability of our third-party suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and vendors to retain their key employees. to the extent our management or other personnel are impacted in significant numbers by covid-19 and are not available to perform their job duties, we could experience delays in, or the suspension of, our manufacturing operations, research and product development activities, regulatory work streams, clinical development programs and other important commercial functions. while the impact of covid-19 has had, and we expect it to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, the nature and extent of such impact is highly uncertain and unpredictable. we operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. we compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. these markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. in the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. in addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. we believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: product performance and reliability, product technology and innovation, product quality and safety, breadth of product lines, product support services, customer support, cost-effectiveness and price, reimbursement approval from healthcare insurance providers, and changes to the regulatory environment. competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. in addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. these companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. from time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. in the current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. further, our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. in order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success. reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. the manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of a sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. we manufacture the majority of our products and procure important third-party services, such as sterilization services, at numerous facilities worldwide. we purchase many of 15 table of contents the components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, components and services. however, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture our products are obtained from a sole supplier. although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components, raw materials and services may be interrupted or insufficient. in addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of regulatory agencies, including the u.s. fda, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. we use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. a reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales. other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales and fulfillment systems for any reason, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, supplier facility shut-downs, defective raw materials, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes or wildfires, property damage from riots, and other environmental factors and the impact of epidemics or pandemics, such as covid-19, and actions by businesses, communities and governments in response, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. for example, in the past we have experienced a global information technology systems interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes, and we are currently adversely impacted by, and expect to continue to be adversely impacted by, the global covid-19 pandemic and the responses of governments and of our partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and other businesses. furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues. in addition, several of our key products are manufactured or sterilized at a particular facility, with limited alternate facilities. if an event occurs that results in damage to or closure of one or more of such facilities, such as the damage caused by hurricane maria in puerto rico in september 2017, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products at the previous levels or at all. because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing or sterilization facility, a third-party may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing or sterilization capacity is lost. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the u.s. fda, u.s. department of justice, health and human services-office of the inspector general, and numerous other federal, state, and non-u.s. governmental authorities. to varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. as a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials or the market's or u.s. fda's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may: take a significant amount of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and limit the proposed uses of our products. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under the u.s. fda and other applicable non-u.s. government agency regulations. for instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the u.s. fda to determine compliance with applicable regulations. the results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on the u.s. fda's form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. if the u.s. fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the u.s. fda could ban such medical products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-u.s governments for exports, and/or 16 table of contents require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the u.s. fda and other non-u.s. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis. the u.s. fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with healthcare providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into corporate integrity agreements (cias) with governmental agencies. in addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. these potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, the u.s. fda has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. governmental regulations outside the u.s. have, and may continue to, become increasingly stringent and common. in the european union, for example, a new medical device regulation was published in 2017 which, when it enters into force in may 2021, will include significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company's business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of healthcare goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental healthcare programs (e.g., medicare, medicaid and comparable non-u.s. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. the ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. as a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by hhs, including the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services (cms), as well as comparable state and non-u.s. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health are goods and services, including laws and regulations related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and healthcare fraud. many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. in certain circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing false claims. in addition, as a manufacturer of u.s. fda-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the physician payments sunshine act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to u.s.-licensed physicians or u.s. teaching hospitals. any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. we are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the u.s. and around the world. implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. 17 table of contents we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impacting our ability to sell current or future products. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) to protect our business and proprietary intellectual property. we also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. at any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or that enforcement actions to protect our patent and proprietary rights against others could be unsuccessful, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets or agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or too limited in scope to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and such licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. in addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market or manufacture some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. quality problems and product liability claims could lead to recalls or safety alerts, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the impact on patients, and the serious and potentially costly consequences of product failure. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. in addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. component failures, manufacturing nonconformances, design defects, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products, if they were to occur, could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. these problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. due to the strong name recognition of the medtronic and covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. further, we may be exposed to additional potential product liability risks related to products designed, manufactured and/or marketed in response to the covid-19 pandemic, and unpredictable or accelerated changes in demand for certain of our products in connection with covid-19 and its related impacts could impact development and production of products and services and could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or related claims, as well as adversely impact our customer relationships and reputation. strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. if we fall short of these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. if our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. in certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. 18 table of contents any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. our mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. the rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. in addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. we expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. in response to perceived increases in healthcare costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by several governments, regulators and third-party payers globally, including the u.s. federal and state governments, to control these costs and, more generally, to reform healthcare systems, including u.s. healthcare reform legislation. certain of these proposals could, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. the adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. we manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. we continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with third-party insurers that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the company. we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. the absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have experienced, and may continue to experience, decreasing prices for certain of our goods and services due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payers on our customers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. if the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. we are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. we develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. we intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the u.s., especially in emerging markets. operations in different countries including emerging markets could expose us to additional and greater risks and potential costs, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates, healthcare reform legislation, the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, local product preferences and product requirements, longer-term receivables than are typical in the u.s., 19 table of contents trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the u.s. than exists in the u.s., different labor regulations and workforce instability, political and economic instability, the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. the escalating global economic competition and trade tensions between the u.s. and china present risk to medtronic. although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact on medtronic from increased duties imposed by both sides (through petitioning both governments for tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. tariff exclusions awarded to medtronic by the u.s. government require annual renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. the u.s. and china could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect medtronic's access to the markets. china comprises approximately seven percent of our total revenues. more generally, several governments including the u.s. have raised the possibility of policies to induce re-shoring of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies, and greater national production. one example would be stronger buy america requirements in the u.s. or u.s. withdrawal from the world trade organization agreement on government procurement (gpa). if such steps triggered retaliation in other markets restricting access to foreign products in purchases by their government-owned healthcare systems, the result could be a significant impact on medtronic. other significant changes or disruptions to international trade arrangements, such as termination or modifications of other existing trade agreements or the final terms of the brexit arrangement between the united kingdom and european union, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national healthcare systems in many countries. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. in light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, covid-19, and the responses of business and governments to covid-19, have resulted in reduced availability of air transport, port closures, increased border controls or closures, increased transportation costs and increased security threats to our supply chain, and countries may continue to close borders, impose prolonged quarantines, and further restrict travel and other activities. our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of global operations. finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. the failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), the irish criminal justice (corruption offences) act 2018, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the u.s. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. we also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe. global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, including investigations and enforcement proceedings leading to assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. our international operations create a risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. we maintain policies and programs to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements, and to prevent and prohibit improper practices. however, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. in addition, regulators could seek to hold us liable for conduct committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 20 table of contents laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business. the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac), and the bureau of industry and security at the u.s. department of commerce (bis), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict u.s. persons and, in some instances, non-u.s. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to u.s. economic sanctions. our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries, governments, entities, and individuals, and are constantly changing. further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including iran, sudan, syria, cuba and the region of crimea. certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. these business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. we have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. however, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. as the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. if we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. healthcare industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components. most of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. the continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. if third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. the cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the u.s. and outside of the u.s., could harm our ability to operate profitably. for example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and gpos and idns have also concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us. we are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. our operations and those of certain third-party suppliers involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. if we or our suppliers violate these environmental laws and regulations, facilities could be shut down and violators could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. furthermore, environmental laws outside of the u.s. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. in addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of 21 table of contents site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. the costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with healthcare professionals. if we fail to maintain our working relationships with healthcare professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. the research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with healthcare professionals. we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. in addition, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, our access to these professionals has been limited, and travel restrictions, shutdowns and similar measures have impacted our ability to maintain these relationships, thereby affecting our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products. if we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position . we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, including to process, transmit and store sensitive data, and many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to our systems. like other large multi-national corporations, we could experience, and in the past have experienced, attempted or actual interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems, as well as data breaches, such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference with the integrity of our products and data or other significant disruptions. furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. these third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. in addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in their systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems. our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. the variety of u.s. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in item 1. business" - other factors impacting our operations - data privacy and security laws and regulations . for example, gdpr requires us to manage personal data in the e.u. and may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue in the event of certain violations. furthermore, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber-attacks. any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. in addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. further, a greater number of our employees are working remotely in response to the covid-19 pandemic and related government actions, which could expose us to greater risks related to cybersecurity and our information technologies systems. 22 table of contents if our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, and we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. at april 24, 2020, we had approximately $2.8 billion of current debt obligations and $22.0 billion of long-term debt outstanding. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, and exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on floating rate borrowings is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, as well as liabilities or claims relating to such acquired businesses, could adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several significant acquisitions in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. these efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. further, acquired businesses may have liabilities, or be subject to claims, litigation or investigations, that we did not anticipate or which exceed our estimates at the time of the acquisition. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, liabilities, claims, litigation, investigations or other adverse developments relating to acquired businesses or the business practices of acquired companies, including investigations by governmental entities, potential fcpa or product liability claims or other unanticipated liabilities, any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, our ability to retain key employees, and the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company's products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. we also could experience negative effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. these effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 23 table of contents changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the u.s., ireland, and various other jurisdictions in which we operate. the tax laws in the u.s., ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and our effective tax rate. for example, on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"), which resulted in a significant charge to tax expense during our fiscal year 2018 associated with the u.s. taxation of accumulated foreign earnings as well as the requirement to revalue u.s. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the reduction in the u.s. corporate tax rate. the u.s. treasury is expected to issue additional subsequent guidance and interpretation of the tax act. this guidance could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in 2013, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) published an action plan called base erosion and profit shifting (beps) with a view to tackling perceived tax abuse and inconsistency between taxing authorities and their respective approach to international tax matters. the final beps action plan was published in october 2015 and subsequent to this many taxing authorities have adopted the guidelines provided within their local laws. the eu expanded upon these guidelines with the anti-tax avoidance directive (atad 1 &amp; 2) to be applied by all member states by 2020. the oecd announced its intention to expand the scope of beps in march 2018 and in january 2019 they issued a short policy note that announced agreement on the way forward for developing a long term solution to the tax challenges thrown up by the global digital economy and is commonly referred to as beps2.0. the oecd has set a very aggressive timetable for releasing final agreed beps2.0 guidelines on taxing the digital economy for december 2020. the proposals as currently drafted are very wide ranging and could affect all multinational enterprises across all industries without regard to their level of engagement with the digital economy. the aggressive nature of the timeline set by the oecd may mean that all implications for business may not have been fully worked through or fully understood by the oecd before final guidelines are issued. we continue to monitor any and all implications potentially resulting from this guidance. this action together with other legislative changes on the mandatory sharing of company information (financial and operational) with taxing authorities on a local and global basis under various information sharing initiatives, could lead to disagreements between jurisdictions associated with the proper allocation of profits between such jurisdictions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. however, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations in many jurisdictions. therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the medtronic, inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. in march 2009, the irs issued its audit report for medtronic inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. medtronic, inc. reached agreements with the irs on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. the remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between medtronic, inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in puerto rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. an adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k. 24 table of contents future potential changes to the u.s. tax laws could result in us being treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and the irs may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s federal income tax purposes. because medtronic plc is organized under the laws of ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. even so, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). under section 7874 of the code, if medtronic inc.'s shareholders immediately prior to the covidien transaction held 80% or more of the vote or value of our shares by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. immediately after the transaction (the ownership test), and our expanded affiliated group after the transaction did not have substantial business activities in ireland relative to its worldwide activities (the substantial business activities test), we would have been treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. based on the rules for determining share ownership under section 7874 of the code, medtronic, inc.'s shareholders received approximately 70% of our ordinary shares (by both vote and value) by reason of holding stock in medtronic, inc. therefore, under current law, medtronic plc should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, there is limited guidance regarding the application of section 7874, including the application of the ownership test. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of u.s. federal or state governmental contracts to u.s. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation we are incorporated in ireland, and irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the u.s. as an irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit medtronic's flexibility to manage its capital structure. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. accordingly, at our 2019 annual general meeting, our shareholders authorized our board of directors to issue up to 33% of our issued ordinary 25 table of contents shares and further authorized our board of directors to issue up to 10% of such shares for cash without first offering them to our existing shareholders (provided that with respect to 5% of such shares, such allotment is to be used for the purposes of a specified capital investment). both of these authorizations will expire on june 6, 2021, unless renewed by shareholders for a further period. we anticipate seeking new authorizations at our 2020 annual general meeting and in subsequent years. we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. a transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the depository trust company, may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company (dtc) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. the potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares. in certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 25%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and other specified countries that have a tax treaty with ireland may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through dtc will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. shareholders entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with ireland other than their shareholding in our company (for example, they are resident in ireland). shareholders who receive dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends. our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax (cat) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold which irish revenue typically updates annually in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk currency exchange rate risk due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes which may cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flows. we use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. in order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. these contracts are designed to hedge anticipated transactions in other currencies and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. at inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. the primary currencies of our derivative instruments are the euro, japanese yen, chinese yuan, and others. fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. we do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes. the gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at april 24, 2020 and april 26, 2019 was $11.9 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively. at april 24, 2020, these contracts were in a net unrealized gain position of $384 million. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at april 24, 2020 and april 26, 2019 indicates that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, it would have the following impact on the fair value of these contracts: increase (decrease) (in millions) 2020 2019 10% appreciation in the u.s. dollar $ 750 $ 916 10% depreciation in the u.s. dollar (750) (916) any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. these offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we began accounting for our operations in argentina as highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100 percent. the change did not have a material impact on our results for fiscal year ended 2020. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. our debt portfolio at april 24, 2020 was comprised of debt predominately denominated in u.s. dollars and the euro, of which substantially all is fixed rate debt. we are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities. a sensitivity analysis of the impact on our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, as compared to interest rates at april 24, 2020 and april 26, 2019, would have the following impact on the fair value of these instruments: increase (decrease) (in millions) 2020 2019 10 basis point increase in interest rates $ 34 $ 49 10 basis point decrease in interest rates (34) (49) for a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the liquidity section of the management's discussion and analysis in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k. for additional discussion of market risk, see notes 6 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements in