risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations, financial condition or results from operations. we operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate primarily in the wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in 9 table of contents demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. continued uncertain economic conditions worldwide, together with other factors such as the continued volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. although we believe that the market for wireless communications semiconductor products has stabilized to some extent, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in another market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and restructuring and/or impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the wireless communications semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the wireless semiconductor market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly on a quarterly and annual basis in prior fiscal years and our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. these fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally cellular handsets) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers, 10 table of contents the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, including the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possible substantially over a short period of time. the wireless communications semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with united states and international semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including avago technologies, rf micro devices and triquint semiconductor. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product price, features available in products, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, and maintaining access to raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, 11 table of contents brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. the wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain capacity sufficient to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, for overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. 12 table of contents accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products to remain competitive. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are capped at significant amounts, or are uncapped. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, 13 table of contents cause production to be suspended. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products. we rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers. if we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an extended period of time to complete our qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. the foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in earthquake zones. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate a test and assembly facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are continuing to develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. however, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the risks described above. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. 14 table of contents our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010, foxconn, nokia and samsung electronics each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 18 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. after one of our products has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate that product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. this lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. as a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenue for these products. furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments to us for non-returnable products could be impaired. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. 15 table of contents the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and 16 table of contents any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our operations. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we have our own packaging, assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including changes in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, limitations on the repatriation of funds, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could adversely affect our results of operations, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates and the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, and 17 table of contents limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist if and when we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all). failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the electronics industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ("rohs") directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. we may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. we have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the united states and in foreign countries. current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental 18 table of contents regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the federal communications committee ("fcc") and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. the cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts. although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer gallium arsenide products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. we may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide solutions. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, one-time write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. when such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. 19 table of contents certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors, the classified board or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which as of september 30, 2011 consisted of the following (in thousands): cash and cash equivalents (time deposits and money market funds) $ 410,087 restricted cash (time deposits and certificates of deposit) 712 available for sale securities (auction rate securities) 2,288 $ 413,087 the main objective of our investment activities is the liquidity and preservation of capital. in general, our cash and cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods which dampen the impact of significant market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material as our investment policy prescribes high credit quality standards and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. we currently do not use derivative instruments for trading, speculative or investment purposes; however, we may use derivatives in the future. 34 table of contents we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality and interest rates. available for sale securities carry a longer maturity period (contractual maturities exceed ten years). our short-term debt at september 30, 2011 consists of $26.7 million aggregate principal amount of our remaining 2007 convertible notes which are due in march 2012. the 2007 convertible notes contain cash settlement provisions should the share price of the company's common stock exceed $9.52. it has been the company's historical practice to cash settle the principal and interest components of convertible debt instruments, and it is our intention to continue to do so in the future. as of september 30, 2011, based on the closing stock price on september 30, 2011 of $17.96 , the actual "if converted" value of the remaining convertible notes was $50.3 million which exceeds the related principal amount by approximately $23.6 million . the actual amount of the cash premium will be calculated based on the 20 day average stock price prior to maturity. a $1.00 change in our stock price would change the "if converted" value of the cash premium of the total aggregate principle amount of the remaining convertible notes by approximately $2.8 million. we do not believe that investment or interest rate risk is material to our business or results of operations. our cash and cash equivalents at september 30, 2011 consisted of $335.3 million held domestically, with the remaining balance of $75.5 million held by foreign subsidiaries. there may be adverse tax effects upon repatriation of these funds to the united states. exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a small percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. exchange rate volatility could negatively or positively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2011 , october 1, 2010, and october 2, 2009, the company had foreign exchange gains/(losses) of $0.3 million, $(0.6) million, and $0.7 million, respectively. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. 35 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations, financial condition or results from operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. continued uncertain economic conditions worldwide, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. although we believe that the market for our semiconductor products has stabilized to some extent, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and restructuring and/or impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many 11 table of contents factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions (including the possibility of expiring tax cuts combined with mandatory reductions in federal spending in the united states), and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, including the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with united states and international semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including analog devices, avago technologies, hittite microwave, linear technologies, maxim integrated products, peregrine semiconductor, rf micro devices, and triquint semiconductor. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product price, features available in products, 12 table of contents alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, ability to partner with/ participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, strong baseband partnership/ participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, 13 table of contents for overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors and customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, 14 table of contents which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are capped at significant amounts, or are uncapped. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 15 table of contents although we own and operate an assembly and test facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal year 2012 two customers, foxconn and samsung electronics each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 18 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before 16 table of contents generating any revenues related to those products. after one of our products has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate that product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. this lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. as a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenue for these products. furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, master service agreements, etc. and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments to us for non-returnable products could be impaired. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. 17 table of contents many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our operations. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we have our own packaging, assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including changes in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, labor market conditions and worker's rights, 18 table of contents disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, limitations on the repatriation of funds, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could adversely affect our results of operations, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings or unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or u.s.-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities or repay future debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist if and when we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all). failure to obtain capital when required by our business 19 table of contents circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ("rohs") directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. the sec recently adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from, or could have come from, the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries. these new rules and verification requirements, which will apply to our activities in calendar 2013, will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the u.s. congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the u.s. environmental protection 20 table of contents agency ( epa ) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. the epa is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. we may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. we have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the united states and in foreign countries. current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the federal communications committee ("fcc") and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for wireless communications devices that contain our products. our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. the cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. further, silicon based designs offer alternatives within the system architecture which are unavailable for gallium arsenide based designs. therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts. although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer gallium arsenide products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. we may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide products. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, 21 table of contents the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors, the classified board or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are 22 table of contents sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. there is significant uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets, exacerbated by the ongoing european debt crisis. these economic uncertainties may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. uncertainty regarding the future stability of the euro zone could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power and demand from of our european customers. in addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays and increased accounts receivable defaults. during the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis. some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs and there can be no assurance that such programs will continue in the future. if economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to investment risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio consisted of the following (in thousands): as of september 28, 2012 cash and cash equivalents (time deposits and money market funds) $ 306,293 restricted cash (time deposits and certificates of deposit) 817 available for sale securities (auction rate securities) at carrying value 3,093 $ 310,203 the main objective of our investment activities is the liquidity and preservation of capital. in general, our cash and cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods which dampen the impact of significant market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material as our investment policy prescribes high credit quality standards and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. we currently do not use derivative instruments for trading, speculative or investment purposes; however, we may use derivatives in the future. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality and interest rates. securities that are available for sale carry a longer maturity period (in some cases original contractual maturities exceed ten years). in the event the market conditions change in the future and our auction rate security becomes fully and permanently impaired, the impact to income before income taxes would be the par value of the auction rate security of approximately $4.0 million as of september 28, 2012. based on the results of operations for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2012, a hypothetical reduction in interest rates to zero on our cash and cash equivalents would result in a reduction of interest income of approximately $0.1 million to income before 33 table of contents income taxes. given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that market, investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a small percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. exchange rate volatility could negatively or positively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2012 , september 30, 2011 , and october 1, 2010 , the company had foreign exchange (losses)/gain of $(0.4) million, $0.3 million, and $(0.6) million, respectively. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. 34 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us present significant risks to our business at this time and may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. although we believe that the market for our semiconductor products has stabilized to some extent, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory and restructuring and/or asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, 11 table of contents our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. there is significant uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets, exacerbated by the european debt crisis, the recent shutdown of the united stated federal government, and fears that the united states federal government's credit rating may be downgraded as a result of a failure (or threatened failure) to increase the federal government's debt ceiling. these economic uncertainties may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. uncertainty regarding the future stability of the euro zone could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power and demand from of our european customers. in addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays and increased accounts receivable defaults. during the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis. some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs and there can be no assurance that such programs will continue in the future. if economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including analog devices, avago technologies, hittite microwave, linear technologies, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, peregrine semiconductor, rf micro devices, and triquint semiconductor. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, strong baseband partnership/ participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and 13 table of contents characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable 14 table of contents manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors and customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. after one of our products has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate that product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. this lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. as a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenue for these products. furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. 15 table of contents we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate an assembly and test facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for 16 table of contents our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal 2013 and 2012, two customers each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 15 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivables could be impaired. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. 17 table of contents any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. 18 table of contents we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or in our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we have our own packaging, assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, labor market conditions and worker's rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could adversely affect our results of operations, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction given the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and / or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations 19 table of contents of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. changes in tax regulations and/or changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiary in singapore could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase or our tax saving strategies could be threatened. for example, our subsidiary in singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through september 2020. changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all). failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. 20 table of contents increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ("rohs") directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. the sec recently adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from, or could have come from, the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries. these new rules and verification requirements impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the united states congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the united states environmental protection agency ( epa ) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. the epa is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. we may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. we have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the united states and in foreign countries. current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the federal communications committee ("fcc") and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for wireless communications devices that contain our products. our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is often more costly than the production of silicon circuits. the cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. further, silicon based designs offer alternatives within the system architecture which are unavailable for gallium arsenide based designs. therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over silicon-based alternatives. although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer gallium arsenide products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our factories could become underutilized adversely affecting our operating results. as a result of underutilization, we could expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. we may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide products. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, no stockholder right to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law 22 table of contents generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality investment risk, interest rate risk and exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks related principally to our investment portfolio and consisting of the following (in millions): september 27, 2013 cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificate of deposits and money market funds) $ 511.1 available for sale securities (auction rate securities) at carrying value 2.3 total $ 513.4 the main objectives of our investment activities are the liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods which dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material as our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counter party. we currently do not use derivative instruments for trading, speculative or investment purposes; however, we may use derivatives in the future. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended september 27, 2013, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact to income before taxes. 33 table of contents we own $3.2 million of par value auction rate securities which are currently valued at $2.3 million as of september 27, 2013. in the event that the market conditions change in the future and our auction rate security becomes fully and permanently impaired, the impact to income before income taxes would be the par value of the auction rate security of approximately $3.2 million as of september 27, 2013. given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that market, investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a small percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. exchange rate volatility could negatively or positively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 27, 2013 , september 28, 2012 , and september 30, 2011 , the company had foreign exchange (losses)/gains of $(1.1) million, $(0.4) million, and $0.3 million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. 34 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us present significant risks to our business at this time and may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. although we believe that the market for our semiconductor products has stabilized to some extent, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory 10 table of contents and restructuring and/or asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock 11 table of contents attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. in march 2014, we announced the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program. we intend to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development; use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions; capital requirements related to stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our dividend payment or declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. current uncertainties regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. uncertainty regarding the future stability of the euro zone could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power and demand from of our european customers. in addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays and increased accounts receivable defaults. during the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis. some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs and there can be no assurance that such programs will continue in the future. if economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including analog devices, avago technologies, linear technology, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, qualcomm, rf micro devices and triquint semiconductor. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product cost and selling price, 12 table of contents features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. 13 table of contents our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors and customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. after one of our products has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate that product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. this lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. as a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenue for these products. furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our 15 table of contents gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate an assembly and test facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. 16 table of contents we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal 2014 and 2013, two customers each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 16 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivables could be impaired. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. 17 table of contents in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or in our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan and uozu, japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico and in singapore. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: 18 table of contents currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, labor market conditions and worker's rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could adversely affect our results of operations, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction given the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and / or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. 19 table of contents changes in tax regulations and/or changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiary in singapore could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase or our tax saving strategies could be threatened. for example, our subsidiary in singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through september 2020. changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all). failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are 20 table of contents currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the united states congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the united states environmental protection agency ( epa ) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. the epa is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. we may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. we have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the united states and in foreign countries. current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the federal communications committee ( fcc ) and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for wireless communications devices that contain our products. our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is often more costly than the production of silicon circuits. the cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. further, silicon based designs offer alternatives within the system architecture which 21 table of contents are unavailable for gallium arsenide based designs. therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over silicon-based alternatives. although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer gallium arsenide products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our factories could become underutilized adversely affecting our operating results. as a result of underutilization, we could expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. we may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide products. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, no stockholder right to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality investment risk, interest rate risk and exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks related principally to our investment portfolio and consisting of the following (in millions): october 3, 2014 cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificate of deposits and money market funds) $ 805.8 available for sale securities (auction rate securities) at carrying value 2.3 total $ 808.1 the main objectives of our investment activities are the liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods which dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material as our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counter party. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended october 3, 2014 , a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact to income before taxes. we own $3.2 million of par value auction rate securities which are currently valued at $2.3 million as of october 3, 2014 . in the event that the market conditions change in the future and our auction rate security becomes fully and permanently impaired, the impact to income before income taxes would be the par value of the auction rate security of approximately $3.2 million as of october 3, 2014 . given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that market, investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a small percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. exchange rate volatility could negatively or positively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended october 3, 2014 , september 27, 2013 and september 28, 2012 , the company had foreign exchange gains/(losses) of $0.1 million, $(1.1) million and $(0.4) million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. the company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. the company's practice is to hedge a portion of its material foreign exchange exposures. however, the company may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. 33 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us present significant risks to our business at this time and may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. although we believe that the market for our semiconductor products has stabilized to some extent, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory and restructuring and/or asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, 10 table of contents our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal 2015, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. in fiscal 2014, two customers each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 16 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. we intend to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development; use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions; capital requirements related to stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and 11 table of contents changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our dividend payment or declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. current uncertainties regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. uncertainty regarding the future stability of the euro zone could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power and demand from of our european customers. in addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays and increased accounts receivable defaults. during the past few years, many governments adopted stimulus or spending programs designed to ease the economic impact of the crisis. some of our businesses benefited from these stimulus programs and there can be no assurance that such programs will continue in the future. if economic conditions deteriorate, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including analog devices, avago technologies, linear technology, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, nxp, qualcomm, and qorvo. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, 12 table of contents ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win 13 table of contents from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. after one of our products has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate that product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. this lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. as a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenue for these products. furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may 14 table of contents require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate an assembly and test facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing 15 table of contents capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivables could be impaired. 16 table of contents we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 17 table of contents despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or in our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan and osaka, japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico and in singapore. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, labor market conditions and workers' rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction given the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and / or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to 18 table of contents the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. changes in tax regulations and/or changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiary in singapore could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase or our tax saving strategies could be threatened. for example, our subsidiary in singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through september 2020. changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and 19 table of contents the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the united states congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the united states environmental protection agency ( epa ) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. the epa is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. we may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. we have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the united states and in foreign countries. current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our solutions and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the federal communications committee ( fcc ) and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for wireless communications devices that contain our products. our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is often more costly than the production of silicon circuits. the cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. further, silicon based designs offer alternatives within the system architecture which are unavailable for gallium arsenide based designs. therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over silicon-based alternatives. although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer gallium arsenide products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our factories could become underutilized adversely affecting our operating results. as a result of underutilization, we could expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. we may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide products. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, no stockholder right to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder 21 table of contents or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information by third parties or by skyworks employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality investment risk, interest rate risk and exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks related principally to our investment portfolio and consisted of the following (in millions): october 2, 2015 cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificate of deposits and money market funds) $ 1,043.6 available for sale securities (auction rate securities) at carrying value 2.3 total $ 1,045.9 the main objectives of our investment activities are the liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material as our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings that reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended october 2, 2015 , a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact to income before taxes. we own $3.2 million of par value auction rate securities that are currently valued at $2.3 million as of october 2, 2015 . in the event that the market conditions change in the future and our auction rate security becomes fully and permanently impaired, the impact to income before income taxes would be the par value of the auction rate security of approximately $3.2 million as of october 2, 2015 . 32 table of contents given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that market, investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a small percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. exchange rate volatility could negatively or positively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended october 2, 2015 , october 3, 2014 and september 27, 2013 , the company had foreign exchange gains/(losses) of $1.7 million, $0.1 million and $(1.1) million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. the company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. the company's practice is to hedge a portion of its material foreign exchange exposures. however, the company may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. the company currently holds foreign currency put and call options on the japanese yen that offset the cash flow impact related to the purchase option of the remaining 34% interest of filterco. changes in the exchange rate between the japanese yen and united states dollar had a de minimis impact to income before taxes during the fiscal year ended october 2, 2015. 33 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us present significant risks to our business at this time and may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory and restructuring and/or asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, increasing industry consolidation among our competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, and 10 table of contents intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2014, two customers each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. in fiscal 2015, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 16 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, instability in global credit and financial markets, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has and continues to significantly and negatively affect the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. we intend to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development; use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions; capital requirements related to stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and 11 table of contents changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our dividend payment or declare dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including, but not limited to, analog devices, broadcom, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, nxp semiconductors, qualcomm, and qorvo. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramps, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. as a result of industry consolidation, certain competitors may be able to further exploit such benefits to strengthen their competitive position. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted. 12 table of contents current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. if original equipment manufacturers or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, as a result of our lengthy product development and sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative 13 table of contents expenses, without generating the anticipated revenue associated with these products. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our relationships with independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. 14 table of contents we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely upon foundries to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate an assembly and test facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited 15 table of contents number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivable could be impaired. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and 16 table of contents license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or in our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in 17 table of contents kadoma, japan and osaka, japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico and in singapore. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, labor market conditions and workers' rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments (including changes proposed in certain countries in europe and elsewhere regarding corporate taxes, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions), changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction given the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and / or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased 18 table of contents taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. changes in tax regulations and changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiary in singapore could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase. for example, our subsidiary in singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through september 2020. changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. 19 table of contents a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the united states congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the united states environmental protection agency ( epa ) has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. the epa is developing other climate change-based regulations, as are certain states, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. furthermore, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. in addition, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, no stockholder right to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, 20 table of contents a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information by third parties or by our employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality investment risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks related principally to our investment portfolio, and consisted of the following (in millions): september 30, 2016 cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificates of deposit and money market funds) $ 1,083.8 available for sale securities (auction rate security) at carrying value 2.3 total $ 1,086.1 the main objectives of our investment activities are the liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2016 , a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes. we own $3.2 million of par value auction rate securities that are currently valued at $2.3 million as of september 30, 2016 . in the event that the market conditions change in the future and our auction rate security becomes fully and permanently impaired, the impact to income before income taxes would be the par value of the auction rate security of approximately $3.2 million as of september 30, 2016 . given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that market, investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. foreign exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2016 , october 2, 2015 , and october 3, 2014 , we had foreign exchange (losses)/gains of ($0.3) million, $1.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our 33 table of contents current business or results of operations. however, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. however, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. 34 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory charges, restructuring charges, and asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally smartphones) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, increasing industry consolidation among our competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customer's products, and 10 table of contents intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. we employ certain methods, assumptions, estimates, and other subjective judgments in order to apply our accounting policies and to project future performance, projections which may be publicly disclosed from time to time. changes to such methods, assumptions, estimates, and judgments, combined with other factors that are difficult to forecast, including the factors listed above, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results and could produce actual operating results that differ significantly from previous estimates and projections. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal 2017, three customers each accounted for ten percent of greater of our net revenue. in fiscal 2016, two customers each accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. in fiscal 2015, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 16 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, instability in global credit and financial markets, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax and fiscal policy decisions, and the ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has affected, and could significantly and negatively affect, the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the other analog markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including, but not limited to, analog devices, broadcom, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, nxp semiconductors, qualcomm, and qorvo. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased 11 table of contents challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramps, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. as a result of industry consolidation, certain competitors may be able to further exploit such benefits to strengthen their competitive position. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, as a result of our lengthy product 12 table of contents development and sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, without generating the anticipated revenue associated with these products. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan and osaka, japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico and in singapore. our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including, but not limited to, social, economic and political instability related to the uncertainty regarding the relationships between the united states and mexico, russia, china, north korea, middle eastern countries, other foreign countries, and the international community at large, and related to the united kingdom's pending withdrawal from the european union, labor market conditions and workers' rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, border taxes, increased import or export controls and tariffs) that could negatively impact trade between, or increase the cost of operating in, the countries in which skyworks does business, changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, including restrictions on selling to certain customers or into certain jurisdictions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions, subsidies or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, foreign travel, and import or export licensing requirements, withdrawal from, or renegotiation of, existing trade agreements by the united states (or other jurisdictions) potentially affecting mexico, china, and other countries in which skyworks does business, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments (including changes proposed in the u.s. regarding corporate taxes, the taxation of income earned outside the u.s., and the taxation of imported and exported goods and services, as well as changes in certain countries in europe and elsewhere regarding corporate taxes, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions), changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction given the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and / or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. 13 table of contents some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may establish legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from united states laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized, and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or man-made disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california or woburn, massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our saw and tc-saw filter manufacturing process is also specialized in nature and in the event of a disruption in production at our filter wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan and osaka, japan or in our filter assembly and test facility in singapore, for any reason, alternative filter production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may 14 table of contents require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry depends upon our ability to develop new products, reduce costs in a timely manner, transition to smaller geometry process technologies, and achieve higher levels of design integration. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our relationships with certain foundries. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential 15 table of contents liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. depending on the nature of the product defects, we may not be able to recoup our losses from our third-party suppliers. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely upon foundries to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate assembly and test facilities, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. further, existing immigration laws, together with any changes to immigration policies or regulations in the united states, could make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. travel bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, collaborate as a global company or service our international customer base. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. 16 table of contents our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. in addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivable could be impaired. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. our business and operations could suffer in the event of information technology security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information by third parties or by our employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers', licensees' or employees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: 17 table of contents the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or in our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could 18 table of contents lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future cash dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development, our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows, use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions, capital requirements related to stock repurchase programs, changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws, and changes to our business model. our cash dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our cash dividend payment or declare cash dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our cash dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. changes in tax regulations and changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiary in singapore could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, including the base erosion and profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development, our tax liability in general could increase. for example, our subsidiary in singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through september 2020. changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. 19 table of contents moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on climate change, sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result in increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions restrict or may seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the united states congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the united states environmental protection agency has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. various jurisdictions are developing other climate change-based regulations, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. furthermore, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. in addition, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: 20 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, no stockholder right to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality investment risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio which consists of cash and cash equivalents (time deposits, certificates of deposit and money market funds) that total $1,616.8 million as of september 29, 2017. the main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our money market and deposits are diversified across several financial institutions with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2017 , a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash and cash equivalents to zero would result in an approximately $5.6 million reduction of interest income with the resulting impact on income before taxes. given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash and cash equivalents and other investments, we do not believe that investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. foreign exchange rate risk 32 table of contents substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 29, 2017 , september 30, 2016 , and october 2, 2015 , we had foreign exchange (losses)/gains of ($3.1) million, ($5.6) million and $1.4 million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our current business or results of operations. however, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. however, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. 33 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time may impair our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic and political conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory charges, restructuring charges, and asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, increasing industry consolidation among our competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customer's products, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property, and related remedies (e.g., monetary damages, injunctions, or exclusion orders affecting our or our customers' products). 10 table of contents we employ certain methods, assumptions, estimates, and other subjective judgments in order to apply our accounting policies and to project future performance, projections which may be publicly disclosed from time to time. changes to such methods, assumptions, estimates, and judgments, combined with other factors that are difficult to forecast, including the factors listed above, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results and could produce actual operating results that differ significantly from previous estimates and projections. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in fiscal 2018, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. in fiscal 2017, three customers each accounted for ten percent or greater of our net revenue. in fiscal 2016, two customers each accounted for ten percent or greater of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 17 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, instability in global credit and financial markets, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax, fiscal, and trade policy decisions, and our ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has affected, and could significantly and negatively affect, the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry, in general, and the other analog markets in which we compete are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including, but not limited to, analog devices, broadcom, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, nxp semiconductors, qualcomm, and qorvo. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes (including national or regional policies intended to develop and support localized competitors). we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: 11 table of contents rapid time-to-market and product ramps, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to, and the protection and enforcement of, intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors benefit from: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, vertical integration, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. as a result of industry consolidation, certain competitors may be able to further exploit such benefits to strengthen their competitive position. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price and quality, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, as a result of our lengthy product development and sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, without generating the anticipated revenue associated with these products. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from shipments to customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. in addition, we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. finally, we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan, and osaka, japan, as well as packaging, assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico, and in singapore. 12 table of contents our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including, but not limited to, social, economic and political instability related to the uncertainty regarding the relationships between the united states and china, russia, mexico, north korea, middle eastern countries, other foreign countries, and the international community at large, and related to the united kingdom's pending withdrawal from the european union, labor market conditions and workers' rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, border taxes, increased import or export controls and tariffs) that could negatively impact trade between, or increase the cost of operating in, the countries in which we do business, changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, including restrictions on selling to certain customers or into certain jurisdictions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, unauthorized transfers of our electronic information and breaches of our information systems, as well as the potential lack of adequate remedies in certain jurisdictions, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions, subsidies or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, foreign travel, and import or export licensing requirements, withdrawal from, or renegotiation of, existing trade agreements by the united states (or other jurisdictions) potentially affecting mexico, china, and other countries in which we do business, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments (including changes in certain countries in europe and elsewhere regarding corporate taxes, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions), changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings and potential penalties in a foreign jurisdiction, and/or increased compliance expense, as a result of the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, anti-bribery, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection (including, but not limited to, the european union's general data protection regulation), employment and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and/or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may establish legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from united states laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in china. our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including 13 table of contents those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. in particular, the imposition by the united states of tariffs on goods imported from china or deemed to be of chinese origin and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to chinese customers or to manufacture or source components in china, and countermeasures imposed by china in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in china and elsewhere. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. finally, china's stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers and other technology companies could result in reduced demand for our products in china and other key markets as well as reduced supply of critical materials for our products. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized, and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or man-made disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. likewise, lower-than-expected demand could lead to underutilized manufacturing facilities, which could negatively impact our financial results. due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption in production at our newbury park, california, or woburn, massachusetts, semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities as well as our assembly and test facility in mexicali, mexico, for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our saw and tc-saw filter manufacturing process is also specialized in nature and in the event of a disruption in production at our filter wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan and osaka, japan or in our filter assembly and test facility in singapore, for any reason, alternative filter production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. 14 table of contents remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry depends upon our ability to develop new products, reduce costs in a timely manner, transition to smaller geometry process technologies, and achieve higher levels of design integration. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (including annual product refreshes in some cases), increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications and analog semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our relationships with certain foundries. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls, and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. depending on the nature of the product defects, we may not be able to recoup our losses from our third-party suppliers. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, 15 table of contents indemnification claims, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. we rely on foundries to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies and ip blocks. although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate assembly and test facilities, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. if any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. further, existing immigration laws, together with any changes to immigration policies or regulations in the united states, could make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. travel bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, collaborate as a global company or service our international customer base. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products, could adversely affect our business. 16 table of contents our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through third-party distributors, some of whom have rights to return products if the product is defective. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers and/or distributors may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. some of our customers have implemented vendor-managed inventory, consignment or similar inventory programs which may result in an increase in the time between manufacture of, and payment for, our products. in addition, if a customer or distributor encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's or distributor's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivable could be impaired. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. our business and operations could suffer in the event of information technology security breaches. security breaches, phishing, spoofing, attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, and other cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these incidents, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks (or to an electronic system operated by a third party for our benefit) and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use, transfer, or publication of our intellectual property, our confidential business information, or the personal data of our employees by third parties or by our employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach or other cybersecurity incident results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers', suppliers', licensees' or employees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. we expect to continue devoting significant resources to the security of our information technology systems and the training of our employees. however, we cannot ensure that our efforts will be sufficient to prevent or mitigate the damage caused by a cyberattack, cybersecurity incident or network disruption. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, inventions, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. in the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: 17 table of contents the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around or invalidate our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar competitive products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately cover and protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in other relevant foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection and enforcement may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose, transfer or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our confidential and/or proprietary information being compromised or our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access or misappropriation we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our confidential and/or proprietary information. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of any allegations that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another party, including indemnification claims arising from our contractual obligations of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. 18 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our stock. we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, from time to time the board of directors approves stock repurchase programs, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase shares of common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. future cash dividends and the amount and timing of our stock repurchases may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development, our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows, use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions, capital requirements related to cash dividends and stock repurchase programs, changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws, and changes to our business model. our cash dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our cash dividend payment or declare cash dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our cash dividend payments or a reduction in the level of our stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price. changes in tax laws and regulations worldwide could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, including the base erosion and profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development, our tax liability in general could increase. for example, our subsidiary in singapore receives a tax holiday that is expected to be effective through september 2020. changes in the status of this tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. the new tax legislation (the tax reform act ), enacted by the united states in december 2017, included several changes to u.s. tax laws that will have a significant impact on our operations, including a reduction in the u.s. corporate tax rate, base-erosion prevention measures on earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, and a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign jurisdictions. because these changes require a number of complex calculations that previously were not required, our actual tax liability may differ materially from our income tax provisions, estimates, and accruals. changes in our interpretations and assumptions, as well as additional guidance issued, could increase income tax liabilities and/or reduce certain tax benefits. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, transactions, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, 19 table of contents amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, elements and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on climate change, sustainability and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue for the foreseeable future which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result in increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions restrict or may seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in significant costs for us. the commonwealth of massachusetts has adopted greenhouse gas regulations, and the united states congress may pass federal greenhouse gas legislation in the future. the united states environmental protection agency has issued greenhouse gas reporting regulations that may apply to certain of our operations. various jurisdictions are developing other climate change-based regulations, that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. furthermore, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. in addition, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. 20 table of contents we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of the board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $733.3 million and marketable securities (u.s. treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $294.1 million and $22.8 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of september 28, 2018. the main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between 90 days and two years. credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2018, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes. given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments, we do not believe that investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. foreign exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2018 , september 29, 2017 , and september 30, 2016 , we had foreign exchange losses of $5.5 million, $3.1 million and $5.6 million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our current business or results of operations. however, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. however, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. for the fiscal year ended september 28, 2018 , we had no outstanding foreign currency forward or option contracts with financial institutions. 32 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time may impair our business operations, financial condition, or results of operations. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic and political conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory charges, restructuring charges, and asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings, and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, delays in the adoption of standards by standard-setting bodies and delays in the commercial deployment of certain technologies (including, but not limited to, 5g), actions by government regulators to restrict or delay the availability of sufficient spectrum for wireless technologies, including technologies that utilize unlicensed spectrum and/or shared spectrum, changes in consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other devices that utilize our products, increasing industry consolidation among our competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customer's products (including, but not limited to, market acceptance of 5g products), and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property, and related remedies (e.g., monetary damages, injunctions, or exclusion orders affecting our or our customers' products). we employ certain methods, assumptions, estimates, and other subjective judgments in order to apply our accounting policies and to project future performance, projections which may be publicly disclosed from time to time. changes to such methods, assumptions, estimates, and judgments, combined with other factors that are difficult to forecast, including the factors listed above, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results and could produce actual operating results that differ significantly from 10 table of contents previous estimates and projections. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in each of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. in fiscal 2017, three customers each accounted for ten percent or greater of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 15 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, instability in global credit and financial markets, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets, or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax, fiscal, and trade policy decisions, and our ability to successfully identify, acquire, and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has affected, and could significantly and negatively affect, the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. such volatility could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge, day-trading, or activist investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media, or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the wireless communications semiconductor industry, in general, and the other analog markets in which we compete are very competitive. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including, but not limited to, analog devices, broadcom, cirrus logic, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, nxp semiconductors, qorvo, and qualcomm. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for many of our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin, and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes (including national or regional policies intended to develop and support localized competitors). we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramps (including, but not limited to, high-volume product ramps), timely new product innovation, ability to capture design wins in new growth markets, such as 5g, product quality, reliability, and performance, 11 table of contents ability of certain products, including high reliability solutions, to perform under stringent operating conditions, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to, and the protection and enforcement of, intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies, and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors benefit from: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, vertical integration, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can. as a result of industry consolidation, certain competitors may be able to further exploit such benefits to strengthen their competitive position. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price, and quality, or if the interoperability of our solution with the partner's baseband products were to be restricted, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial, or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers, or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and original design manufacturers, or odms, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort, and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, as a result of our lengthy product development and sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses, without generating the anticipated revenue associated with these products. we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from shipments to customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly, and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. we maintain wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan, and osaka, japan, as well as packaging, assembly, and test facilities in mexicali, mexico, and in singapore. our international 12 table of contents sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including, but not limited to, social, economic, and political instability related to the uncertainty regarding the relationships between the united states and china, russia, mexico, north korea, middle eastern countries, other foreign countries, and the international community at large, and related to the united kingdom's pending withdrawal from the european union, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, border taxes, border closures, increased import or export controls, and tariffs), or actions by non-governmental individuals and groups (such as protests, insurgencies, and organized crime), that could negatively impact trade between, or increase the cost of operating in, the countries in which we do business, labor market conditions and workers' rights, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, including restrictions on selling to certain customers or into certain jurisdictions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness, and war, misappropriation or other unauthorized transfers of our electronic information and breaches of our information systems, as well as the potential lack of adequate remedies in certain jurisdictions, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions, subsidies or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, foreign travel, and import or export licensing requirements, withdrawal from, or renegotiation of, existing trade agreements by the united states (or other jurisdictions) potentially affecting mexico, china, and other countries in which we do business, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments (including changes in certain countries in europe and elsewhere regarding corporate taxes, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions), changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings and potential penalties in a foreign jurisdiction, and/or increased compliance expense, as a result of the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, anti-bribery, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection (including, but not limited to, the european union's general data protection regulation), employment, and labor relations, limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate foreign earnings and/or funds and the unfavorable tax impactions related to the same. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us, potentially impacting our ability to obtain appropriate recourse in the event of a dispute. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may establish legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from united states laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information, and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. 13 table of contents we are particularly exposed to risks of doing business in china. although we intend to expand our business and operations in china, our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties, or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. in particular, the imposition by the united states of tariffs on goods imported from china or deemed to be of chinese origin and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to chinese customers or to manufacture or source components in china, and countermeasures imposed by china in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in china and elsewhere. for example, in may 2019, the u.s. bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce placed huawei and certain of its affiliates on the bureau's entity list, which resulted in our temporarily suspending shipments to huawei, and which is expected to adversely affect future demand for our products from this customer. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business and results of operations. finally, china's stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers and other technology companies could result in reduced demand for our products in china and other key markets as well as reduced supply of critical materials for our products. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized, and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or man-made disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs, and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. likewise, lower-than-expected demand could lead to underutilized manufacturing facilities, which could negatively impact our financial results. due to the highly specialized nature of our manufacturing processes, in the event of a disruption in production at one or more of our facilities for any reason, alternative production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our key facilities include, but are not limited to, our semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities in newbury park, california, and woburn, massachusetts, our saw, tc-saw, and baw filter wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan, and osaka, japan, and our assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico, and in singapore. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. 14 table of contents remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry depends upon our ability to develop new products, reduce costs in a timely manner, transition to smaller geometry process technologies, and achieve higher levels of design integration. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (including annual product refreshes in some cases), increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, and to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards, and expectations of future market growth. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications and analog semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products and thereby remain competitive. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition many of our products to increasingly smaller geometries. this transition often requires us to upgrade our capital equipment, modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and redesign some existing products. in the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays, and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our relationships with certain foundries. if our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls, and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. certain of our products, including high reliability solutions, may not be able to perform under stringent operating conditions. examples of our high reliability solutions include applications intended for the aerospace, automotive, medical, and military markets. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. depending on the nature of the product defects, we may not be able to recoup our losses 15 table of contents from our third-party suppliers. these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, indemnification claims, or other obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly, and testing of our products. we rely on foundries to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages, and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs, and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies, materials, and ip blocks. even in cases where we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and in general we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties or changes in control, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner, or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate assembly and test facilities, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble, and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. for those assembly and test subcontractors with whom we do not have long-term agreements, we typically procure services from these suppliers on a per-order basis. if any of our subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assembly and test subcontractors for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality, or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture, and sale of our products. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. further, existing immigration laws, together with any changes to immigration policies or regulations in the united states, make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. travel bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, collaborate as a global company, or service our international customer base. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. 16 table of contents our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products, could adversely affect our business. our sales are typically made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may cancel orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through third-party distributors, some of whom have rights to return products if the product is nonconforming. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers and/or distributors may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. some of our customers have implemented vendor-managed inventory, consignment, or similar inventory programs which may result in an increase in the time between manufacture of, and payment for, our products. in addition, if a customer or distributor encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's or distributor's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivable could be impaired. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components (including, but not limited to, precious and rare earth metals), as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. our business and operations could suffer in the event of information technology security breaches. security breaches, phishing, spoofing, attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, and other cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated and persistent and are sometimes successful. these incidents, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware and spyware to our computers and networks (or to an electronic system operated by a third party for our benefit) and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use, transfer, or publication of our intellectual property, our confidential business information, or the personal data of our employees by third parties or by our employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach or other cybersecurity incident results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers', suppliers', licensees' or employees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. we expect to continue devoting significant resources to the security of our information technology systems and the training of our employees. however, we cannot ensure that our efforts will be sufficient to prevent or mitigate the damage caused by a cyberattack, cybersecurity incident, or network disruption. if we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully may be materially and adversely affected. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property rights and laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, inventions, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes, and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers, or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such 17 table of contents third-party intellectual property. from time to time, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution, or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers, or other third parties may not be successful, and any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, deemed unenforceable, or circumvented. a third party could copy, misappropriate, or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently, or design around or invalidate our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar competitive products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately cover and protect our technology. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in other relevant foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection, and enforcement may be unavailable, impractical, or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary and confidential information through operational, technological, and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose, transfer, or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our confidential and/or proprietary information being compromised or our operations being interrupted. while we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access or misappropriation we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our confidential and/or proprietary information or that of a third party. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection, enforcement, and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights against technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of any allegations that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another party, including indemnification claims arising from our contractual obligations of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale, or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale, or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. many of our products currently incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. if the licenses to such technology that we currently hold become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, or if we are unable to acquire or license necessary technology for our products in the future, our business could be adversely affected. 18 table of contents we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, and increasing levels of integration. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions or at all, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our stock. we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, from time to time the board of directors approves stock repurchase programs, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase shares of common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. future cash dividends and the amount and timing of our stock repurchases may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development, our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows, use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions, capital requirements related to cash dividends and stock repurchase programs, changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws, and changes to our business model. our cash dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our cash dividend payment or declare cash dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our cash dividend payments or a reduction in the level of our stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price. changes in tax laws and regulations worldwide could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, including the base erosion and profit shifting project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development, our tax liability in general could increase. the tax legislation (the tax reform act ), enacted by the united states in december 2017, included several changes to u.s. tax laws that have had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our operations, including a reduction in the u.s. corporate tax rate, base-erosion prevention measures on earnings of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, and a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign jurisdictions. because these changes require a number of complex calculations that previously were not required, our actual tax liability may differ materially from our income tax provisions, estimates, and accruals. changes in our interpretations and assumptions, as well as additional guidance issued, could increase income tax liabilities and/or reduce certain tax benefits. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. to be successful we may need to make certain investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance, and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance, or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: 19 table of contents issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming, and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules, and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, and disposal of certain chemicals, elements, and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on climate change, sustainability, and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result in increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions restrict or may seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. various jurisdictions in which we do business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases and other climate change-based rules and regulations, which may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position. furthermore, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. in addition, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions, and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 20 table of contents certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of the board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 30 table of contents we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $851.3 million and marketable securities (u.s. treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds, other government securities) that total approximately $203.3 million and $27.6 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of september 27, 2019 . the main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between 90 days and two years. credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended september 27, 2019 , a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes. given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments, we do not believe that investment or interest rate risks pose material exposures to our current business or results of operations. foreign exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended september 27, 2019 , september 28, 2018 , and september 29, 2017 , we had foreign exchange losses of $6.2 million, $5.5 million and $3.1 million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our current business or results of operations. however, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. however, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. for the fiscal year ended september 27, 2019 , we had no outstanding foreign currency forward or option contracts with financial institutions. 31 table of contentsrisk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, some of which have manifested and any of which may occur in the future, in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted by any of these risks, which could in turn adversely affect our stock price. additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us as material risks could also present significant risks to our business. risks associated with operating a global business in many international jurisdictions the effects of the global covid-19 pandemic are adversely affecting our business operations. the ongoing global covid-19 pandemic including both the resulting public health crisis as well as the measures being taken by governments, businesses, and individuals in an effort to limit covid-19's spread has adversely affected, and continues to adversely affect, our business operations. the impacts of the covid-19 pandemic on our business operations and workforce, and the duration of such impacts, are uncertain, constantly evolving, and difficult to quantify, but have thus far included, or in the future may include, the following: we have experienced large fluctuations in the demand for our products, including a significant decrease in overall demand in the initial stages of the pandemic followed more recently by substantial increases in demand for certain of our products. we may experience continued large fluctuations in demand or a reduction in the pricing of our products, either of which could be exacerbated by a continued or deepening global economic downturn or recession caused by the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. in april 2020, we suspended our operations in mexicali, mexico, for approximately two weeks pursuant to an order by the government of the state of baja california, mexico, resulting in the temporary reduction in our production levels. in the event that our manufacturing operations in mexicali become subject to significant restrictions or are suspended again, or in the event that one or more of our other facilities is forced to suspend or limit its activities, including, but not limited to, as a result of such operations or activities not being considered to be an essential business under applicable laws, regulations, or orders (including shelter at home orders or other quarantine-related orders), we may experience further reductions in production levels, which would limit our ability to meet customer demand and impact our operating results. we have implemented certain measures at our facilities worldwide in an effort to protect our employees' health and well-being (including social distancing, allowing many employees to work remotely, limiting the number of employees attending meetings, screening employees and visitors when entering facilities, educating employees about the virus and preventative measures, enhancing cleaning protocols, and suspending employee travel), some of which have reduced the overall efficiency of our operations and increased manufacturing costs. the expected duration of such protective measures remains uncertain, and we may be required to implement additional measures in the future, further impacting our business operations. we have experienced, and may continue to experience, reduced production capacity as a result of employee quarantines, absenteeism, and attrition, as well as restrictions on certain of our employees' ability to work. additionally, we may experience negative impacts to our sales, marketing, research and development, and other critical business functions for similar reasons. given the difficulty of forecasting demand and supply needs, and given that our suppliers are facing similar challenges as a result of the pandemic, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruptions to our supply chain in connection with the sourcing of materials, components, equipment, assembly and test services, engineering support, and other services. we have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruptions to global transportation networks, limiting or delaying our ability, and/or increasing our cost, to send or receive products and materials at one or more of our facilities, including as a result of trade restrictions, border closures, or disruptions in the operations of third-party carriers. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. we may experience negative impacts to our business operations if one or more of these major customers were to significantly decrease its orders for our products due to disruptions to its business operations or other pandemic-related issues. our business operations, as well as the business operations of our customers, suppliers, and other third-party service providers, are subject to frequent and unpredictable changes in the political, regulatory, legal, or economic conditions in the jurisdictions in which they operate. the deterioration of worldwide credit and financial markets could limit the ability of our customers to pay for product purchases in a timely manner, or at all. in the event we are unable to fulfill our contractual obligations, lawsuits may be threatened or filed against us by customers or other third parties. in addition, force majeure clauses in our contracts could limit our ability to pursue remedies for certain third-party disruptions and delays. 11 these effects, alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, customer and supplier relations, employee relations, cash flows, and financial condition. the resumption of normal business operations after any such interruptions may be delayed or constrained by lingering effects of covid-19 on our customers, suppliers, and other third-party service providers. there can be no assurance that any decrease in sales resulting from covid-19 will be offset by increased sales in subsequent periods. the degree to which covid-19 impacts us will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the pandemic, its severity, the actions to contain covid-19 or treat its impact, the timing and magnitude of the u.s. government's economic stimulus efforts, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions resume. even after the covid-19 pandemic has subsided as a public health matter, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business as a result of its adverse impact on the global economy. the risks of doing business internationally apply to all aspects of our operations. we derive significant revenues from customers located outside the united states, primarily in countries located in the asia-pacific region and europe. we have suppliers located outside the united states, and third-party packaging, assembly, and test facilities and foundries located in the asia-pacific region. we also operate our own wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan, and osaka, japan, as well as packaging, assembly, and test facilities in mexicali, mexico, and in singapore (with a substantial majority of our finished products being assembled and tested in our mexicali facility). our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. these include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including increases or decreases in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including, but not limited to, social, economic, and political instability related to the uncertainty regarding the relationships between the united states and china, russia, mexico, north korea, middle eastern countries, other foreign countries, and the international community at large, and related to the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds, restrictions on individuals' movement, including travel restrictions, quarantines, lockdowns, and curfews, and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, border taxes, border closures, increased import or export controls, and tariffs), or actions by non-governmental individuals and groups (such as protests, insurgencies, and organized crime), that could negatively impact trade between, or increase the cost of operating in, the countries in which we do business, labor market conditions and laws, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, including restrictions on selling to certain customers or into certain jurisdictions, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness or other deterioration of public health conditions, and war, misappropriation or other unauthorized transfers of our electronic information and breaches of our information systems, as well as the potential lack of adequate remedies in certain jurisdictions, difficulty in engaging distribution partners or obtaining sales or other business support in certain jurisdictions, cultural differences in the conduct of business, direct or indirect government actions, subsidies, or policies aimed at supporting local industry, the laws and policies of the united states and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, foreign travel, and import or export licensing requirements, withdrawal from, or renegotiation of, existing trade agreements by the united states (or other jurisdictions) potentially affecting mexico, china, and other countries in which we do business, changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments (including changes in certain countries in europe and elsewhere regarding corporate taxes, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions), changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings and potential penalties in a foreign jurisdiction, and/or increased compliance expense, as a result of the numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, anti-bribery, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection (including, but not limited to, the european union's general data protection regulation), employment, and labor relations, and 12 limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction. additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in the united states, south korea, japan, china, and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us, potentially impacting our ability to obtain appropriate recourse in the event of a dispute. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may establish legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from united states laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputation damage, restrictions on our ability to process information, and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. we are subject to the risks of doing business in china. although we intend to expand our business and operations in china, our success in the chinese markets may be adversely affected by china's continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs and restrictions, currency controls, environmental regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent, and the potential issuance of new laws and regulations creates uncertainty. in addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or united states-china relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties, or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. in particular, the imposition by the united states of tariffs on goods imported from china or deemed to be of chinese origin and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to chinese customers or to manufacture or source components in china, and countermeasures imposed by china in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in china and elsewhere. for example, during fiscal 2019, the u.s. bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce placed huawei technology co., ltd., and certain of its affiliates (collectively, huawei ) on the bureau's entity list (the entity list ), which resulted in our temporarily suspending shipments to huawei. during fiscal 2020, the addition of other entities to the entity list (with the prospect of more entities to be added in the future), together with changes to rules regarding the shipment of foreign direct products, again resulted in the suspension of shipments to huawei. in the absence of further changes to applicable export laws and regulations, we will only be able to sell our products to huawei and potentially other companies named on the entity list pursuant to limited export licenses from the u.s. department of commerce. further, the evolving labor market and increasing labor unrest in china may have a negative impact on our customers, which would result in a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. finally, china's stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers and other technology companies could result in reduced demand for our products in china and other key markets as well as reduced supply of critical materials for our products. changes in tax laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our operating results. we are subject to taxation in many different countries and localities worldwide. to the extent the tax laws and regulations in these various countries and localities could change, our tax liability in general could increase. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax reform act ), which significantly reformed the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, and has had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our operations. because the changes in u.s. tax law require a number of complex calculations that previously were not required, our actual tax liability may differ materially from our income tax provisions, estimates, and accruals. changes in our interpretations and assumptions, as well as additional guidance issued under these laws, could increase income tax liabilities and/or reduce certain tax benefits. it is also possible that congress will enact legislation in connection with the covid-19 pandemic in addition to the families first coronavirus response act and the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act enacted in march 2020, some of which could have an impact on our operations. in addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the tax reform act or other changes to tax law. 13 future changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, or the interpretation thereof, in addition to initiatives related to the base erosion and profit shifting project of the organisation for economic co-operation and development; the european commission's state aid investigations; and other developments could have an adverse effect on the taxation of international businesses, including our own. furthermore, countries where we are subject to taxes, including the united states, evaluate their tax policies and rules on a regular basis, and we may see significant changes in legislation and regulations concerning taxation (including as a result of any changes proposed during the next u.s. presidential administration). we are unable to predict what tax changes may be enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business, but such changes could affect our effective tax rates in countries where we have operations and could have an adverse effect on our overall tax position in the future, along with increasing the complexity, burden, and cost of tax compliance. risks associated with the development, manufacturing, and sale of our products our operating results may be adversely affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. our revenues, earnings, and other operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. these fluctuations are typically the result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. these factors include, among others: delays in the widespread deployment of commercial 5g networks or in consumer adoption of 5g-enabled devices, changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, market acceptance of our products and our customer's products (including, but not limited to, market acceptance of new, emerging technologies), new product and technology introductions by competitors, delays in the adoption of standards by standard-setting bodies and delays in the commercial deployment or consumer adoption of certain technologies, actions by government regulators to restrict or delay the availability of sufficient spectrum for wireless technologies, including technologies that utilize unlicensed spectrum and/or shared spectrum, changes in consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other devices that utilize our products, increasing industry consolidation among our competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property, and related remedies (e.g., monetary damages, injunctions, or exclusion orders affecting our or our customers' products). we employ certain methods, assumptions, estimates, and other subjective judgments in order to apply our accounting policies and to project future performance, and such projections may be publicly disclosed from time to time. changes to such methods, assumptions, estimates, and judgments, combined with other factors that are difficult to forecast, including the factors listed above, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results and could produce actual operating results that differ significantly from previous estimates and projections. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. we rely on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales. significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. if we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our stock price. in each of fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019, and fiscal 2018, one customer accounted for greater than ten percent of our net revenue. for further discussion see note 14 to item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. we rely on original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and original design manufacturers ( odms ) to design our products into their end products. our products are not sold directly to the end user but are components or subsystems of other products. as a result, we rely on oems and odms of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. if a manufacturer designs another supplier's product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort, and risk on the part of that manufacturer. also, 14 achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive revenue from that customer. even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. we may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, as a result of our lengthy product development and sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses, without generating the anticipated revenue associated with these products. our manufacturing processes are extremely complex, specialized, and subject to disruption. our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. the fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. it requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment in which our products are produced, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of our products to be rejected or to malfunction. because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business. additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities, as well as disruptions at facilities operated by our subcontractors or customers. these disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or man-made disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs, and/or upgrades. disruptions of our manufacturing operations, or those of our subcontractors and customers, could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift production of the impacted products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor, or until the affected customer resumes operations and accepts shipments from us. in the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. even if alternative production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers and revenue. likewise, lower-than-expected demand could lead to underutilized manufacturing facilities, which could negatively impact our financial results. due to the highly specialized nature of our manufacturing processes, in the event of a disruption in production at one or more of our facilities for any reason, alternative production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. our key facilities include, but are not limited to, our semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities in newbury park, california, and woburn, massachusetts, our saw, tc-saw, and baw filter wafer fabrication facilities in kadoma, japan, and osaka, japan, and our assembly and test facilities in mexicali, mexico, and in singapore. we may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. minor deviations or disturbances in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended and impact our ability to meet customer demand on a timely basis. manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. the difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. our manufacturing operations may also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which may require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly, and testing of our products. we rely on foundries to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. there are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages, and higher wafer prices, limited ability to respond to unanticipated changes in customer demand, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs, process technologies, and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies, materials, and ip blocks. 15 even in cases where we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers and in general we have no contractual right to prevent them from making such allocations. if we choose to use a new foundry to replace either existing or backup capacity, it will typically take an extended period of time for us to complete our qualification process for that foundry, which will result in a significant passage of time before we can begin shipping products from that new foundry. further, the third-party foundries may experience financial difficulties or changes in control, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner, be unwilling to invest in processes that meet our needs, or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in areas prone to natural disasters. if any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. we may therefore experience difficulties, delays, or additional costs in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. although we own and operate assembly and test facilities, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble, and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. for those assembly and test subcontractors with whom we do not have long-term agreements, we typically procure services from these suppliers on a per-order basis. if any of our subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience significant delays and/or costs in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assembly and test subcontractors for our components. any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality, or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components (including, but not limited to, precious and rare earth metals), as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. if a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. in connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. we may also enter into sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. while we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a limited number of sole-source suppliers. if we were to lose these sole sources of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. to the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. we may not be able to effectively operate our business if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. as the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. the competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture, and sale of our products. our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies, which in some cases may be able to offer compensation opportunities in excess of what we offer. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given, among other factors, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. if we are unable to obtain required stockholder approval for future increases in the number of shares available under our long-term incentive plans, we may be limited in granting equity-based incentive awards, which may impair our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. further, existing immigration laws, together with any changes to immigration policies or regulations in the united states, make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, limiting the pool of available talent. travel bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, collaborate as a global company, and service our international customer base. the increased ability for employees in our industry to work from home or in other remote work arrangements could increase employee mobility and turnover, potentially making it more difficult for us to 16 compete in the job market. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. the loss of any member of our senior management team could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. in addition, the loss of certain members of our senior management team could harm our relationships with key customers, which could negatively impact our future revenue, results of operations, and financial condition. we are subject to uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products. our sales are typically made pursuant to standard purchase orders and/or specified customer contracts for delivery of products and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. our customers may seek to cancel or defer orders before shipment. additionally, we sell a portion of our products through third-party distributors, some of whom have rights to return products if the product is nonconforming. we may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. this difficulty may be compounded when we sell to oems indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. in addition, our customers and/or distributors may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. many of our products are customized to the needs or specifications of a specific customer or have a limited number of potential buyers. the cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. on the other hand, customers may require rapid increases in production on short notice, which could result in damaged customer relationships, increased liabilities, or harm to our reputation if we are unable to meet such increases in demand. some of our customers have implemented vendor-managed inventory, consignment, or similar inventory programs that may result in an increase in the time between manufacture of, and payment for, our products. in addition, if a customer or distributor encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customer's or distributor's ability to make timely payments against our accounts receivable could be impaired. we face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. to the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities (including, but not limited to, capital expenditures), we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. if unfavorable capital market conditions exist in the event we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, the future growth of our business is likely to require the expansion of our manufacturing facilities, the upgrade of our manufacturing equipment, strategic investments, and/or corporate acquisitions. the capital required to fund these investments may not be available in the future. risks associated with our industry the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to significant downturns. we operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. uncertain worldwide economic and political conditions, together with other factors such as the volatility of the financial markets, continue to make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. for example, it is difficult to predict what impact the outcomes of the u.s. presidential and congressional elections in november 2020 may have on economic conditions, consumer confidence, geopolitical turmoil, civil unrest, and future legislation and regulation. in addition, the rapid increase in consumer demand for certain devices and technologies that enable remote work, education, and entertainment as a result of the covid-19 pandemic could limit future consumer demand for such products. uncertainty and economic weakness could result in a market contraction and, as a result, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would likely be materially and adversely affected. such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenue, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, bad debt, inventory charges, restructuring charges, and asset impairment charges. furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition, which could adversely affect our stock price. 17 the wireless communications and analog semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition. the wireless communications semiconductor industry, in general, and the other analog markets in which we compete are very competitive, which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins, and rapid loss of market share. we compete with international and united states semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including, but not limited to, analog devices, broadcom, cirrus logic, maxim integrated products, murata manufacturing, nxp semiconductors, qorvo, and qualcomm. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. this competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for many of our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing revenue, gross margin, and market share. furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes (including national or regional policies intended to develop and support localized competitors). we believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramps (including, but not limited to, high-volume product ramps), timely new product innovation, ability to capture design wins in new growth markets, such as 5g, product quality, reliability, and performance, ability of certain products, including high reliability solutions, to perform under stringent operating conditions, product cost and selling price, features available in products, alignment with customer performance specifications, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to, and the protection and enforcement of, intellectual property, ability to partner with or participate in reference designs of baseband vendors, and maintaining access to manufacturing capacity, raw materials, supplies, and services at a competitive cost. we might not be able to successfully address these factors. many of our competitors benefit from: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, vertical integration, strong baseband partnership/participation in reference designs, a broad product portfolio allowing them to bundle product offerings, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, or other resources. as a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can. as a result of industry consolidation, certain competitors may be able to further exploit such benefits to strengthen their competitive position. our baseband reference design partners may leverage their market position by integrating additional functionality into their product offerings that compete with our solutions. if such a product offering were competitive with our solution as to performance, price, and quality, or if the interoperability of our solution with the partner's baseband products were to be restricted, our business could be adversely impacted. current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers, or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers' purchasing decisions. accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. we may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins, and loss of revenue and market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry depends upon our ability to constantly innovate. the semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, many of the markets into which we sell our products, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (including annual product refreshes in some cases), increasing demand for higher levels of 18 integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. the successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including the ability: to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity within an international supply chain to meet customer demand, to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, to achieve overall market acceptance of our products, to lengthen the time that a particular product is in demand, to source and maintain manufacturing materials, and to obtain adequate multi-jurisdictional intellectual property protection for our new products. our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends on, among other factors, the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems. we continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and choose among alternatives based on our understanding of customer technical requirements, new industry standards, and expectations of future market growth and technologies. we may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications and analog semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. we also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. if we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers' requirements, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. we may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products in a timely manner and thereby remain competitive. in order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition many of our products to increasingly smaller geometries and form factors. this transition often requires us to upgrade our capital equipment, modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and redesign some existing products. we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, and increased expenses. we may face similar difficulties, delays, and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. in some instances, we depend on our relationships with our third-party foundries and packaging sub-contractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. our manufacturing partners may not be able to effectively manage the transition, or we may not be able to maintain our relationships with certain manufacturing partners. if our manufacturing partners or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. as smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules, regulations, and customer expectations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. the semiconductor industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, and disposal of certain chemicals, elements, and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. heightened public focus on climate change, sustainability, and environmental issues has also led to increased government regulation and caused certain of our customers to impose environmental standards on us as a part of doing business with them. we expect that the trend of increasing environmental awareness will continue, which will result in higher costs of operations. in addition, our commitment to environmentally sustainable practices, while undertaken in a manner designed to be as efficient and cost effective as possible, may result in increases in costs of operations for us relative to our competitors until technologies and methods are developed that will help reduce those costs or such practices become industry best practice. 19 a number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions restrict or may seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. for example, the european union restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the rohs directive. while we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict-free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. in addition, our customers may begin to require reports on our sourcing of other minerals or substances, which may impact our ongoing operations and increase our operating costs. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. various jurisdictions in which we do business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, limitations or restrictions on water use, regulations on energy management and waste management, and other climate change-based rules and regulations, which may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition, or competitive position. furthermore, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. in addition, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions, and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. to be successful we may need to make investments and acquisitions, integrate companies we acquire, and/or enter into strategic alliances. although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. on an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance, and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities. we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance, or acquisition transactions in the future. moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, restructuring or other impairment write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, recognition of additional liabilities known or unknown at the time of acquisition, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming, and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. if such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. risks associated with cybersecurity and intellectual property protection we may not be able to prevent, or timely detect, information technology security breaches. 20 security breaches, phishing, spoofing, attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, networks, and databases and other cyberattacks continue to become more sophisticated and persistent and are sometimes successful. these incidents, which might be related to industrial, state-sponsored, and/or economic espionage, or financial cyber extortion or fraud, include covertly introducing malware and spyware to our computers and networks (or to an electronic system operated by a third party for our benefit) and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude, duration, and effects. the theft, unauthorized use, transfer, or publication of our intellectual property, our confidential business and/or technical information, or the personal data of our employees and customers by third parties or by our employees could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business and technology development. to the extent that any security breach or other cybersecurity incident results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers', suppliers', licensees', or employees' confidential information, we may incur liability, face contractual and regulatory fines and penalties, and sustain significant financial resources to remediate such breach. such an incident could, among other things, also damage our reputation, impair our ability to attract and retain our customers, impact our stock price, and materially damage supplier relationships. if such incident impedes our inability to use or access our information systems for an extended period of time, this could adversely affect our business operations and financial results. in addition, certain suppliers and other third parties with whom we conduct business, including foundries, assembly and test contractors, and distributors, have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to cybersecurity incidents or network disruptions that could jeopardize our proprietary or sensitive data, impact such third parties' ability to meet their obligations to us, or otherwise negatively impact our ongoing business operations. we expect to continue devoting significant resources to the security of our information technology systems, networks, and databases, including through the training of our employees and monitoring the security posture of critical third parties who have access to our systems or sensitive data. however, we cannot ensure that these security measures and monitoring efforts will be sufficient to prevent or mitigate the damage caused by a cybersecurity incident or network disruption, and our systems may be vulnerable to hacking, insider threats, employee error or manipulation, system malfunctions or other adverse events. while we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate some of these risks, such coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. in order to remain competitive, we must be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property rights and laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary technologies, inventions, information, data, devices, algorithms, processes, and other intellectual property. in addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers, or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. from time to time, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity, enforceability, and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. this could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. regardless of our actions: the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution, or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers, or other third parties may not be successful, any of our existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, deemed unenforceable, or circumvented, and we may be contractually prohibited, or otherwise discouraged, by certain customers from pursuing remedies for third parties' violations of our intellectual property. a third party could copy, misappropriate, or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently, or design around or invalidate our patents. if any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar competitive products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately cover and protect our technology or could be rendered invalid or unenforceable. furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the united states, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in other relevant foreign countries. in addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection and enforcement may be unavailable, impractical, or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. we attempt to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary and confidential information through operational, technological, and legal safeguards. despite our efforts, parties, including current and former employees, consultants, customers, licensees, suppliers, vendors, and other third-party affiliates may attempt to copy, disclose, transfer, or obtain access to our information without our authorization. furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our confidential and/or proprietary information being compromised or our manufacturing and other business operations being interrupted. while we make reasonable attempts to prevent such unauthorized access or misappropriation, we may be unable to anticipate or detect the methods used, or we may be unable to prevent the release of our confidential and/or proprietary information or that of a third party. 21 we are subject to the risks of licensing third-party intellectual property. we sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, and increasing levels of integration. many of our products currently use or incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties and we expect our products in the future to also require technology from third parties. our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. if licenses to such technology for our current or future products become unavailable or the terms on which they are available become commercially unreasonable, and we cannot otherwise acquire or integrate such technology, our products or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, we could lose market share, and our business could be adversely affected. in such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. risks associated with claims, litigation, and legal compliance we may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls, and liability claims. although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, from time to time we become aware of alleged defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, or cash payments to settle claims pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. certain of our products, including high reliability solutions, may not be able to perform under stringent operating conditions. examples of our high reliability solutions include applications intended for the aerospace, automotive, medical, and military markets. the potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are in some cases capped at significant amounts, and in other cases are uncapped. in addition, because we do not always have a direct relationship with the end customers of our products, our products may be used in applications for which they were not necessarily designed or tested, and they may not perform as anticipated in such applications. depending on the nature of any product defect claims, we may not be able to recoup our losses from our third-party suppliers. investigating, analyzing, and/or remediating alleged product defects may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or third parties, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, indemnification claims, product redesigns, or obligations under customer contracts. if any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, such losses would not be covered under our existing corporate insurance programs. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection, enforcement, and pursuit of intellectual property rights. from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights against technologies that are important to our business and manufacturing operations and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. any litigation to determine the validity of any allegations that our products infringe or may infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of another party, including indemnification claims arising from our contractual obligations of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale, or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop an alternate non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. in addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale, or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. if such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. 22 risks associated with owning our common stock our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, instability in global credit and financial markets, our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers and competitors, our revenue concentrations with relatively few customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, the inclusion, exclusion, or removal of our stock from market indices, such as the s&amp;p 500 index, our stock repurchase and dividend activities, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates, price targets, or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, domestic and international political conditions, domestic and international tax, fiscal, and trade policy decisions, and our ability to successfully identify, acquire, and integrate acquisition candidates. public stock markets have experienced price and trading volume volatility. this volatility has affected, and could significantly and negatively affect in the future, the market prices of securities of many technology companies, particularly the market price of our common stock. in addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge, day-trading, or activist investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. we have been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media, or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our stock. we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, from time to time the board of directors approves stock repurchase programs, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase shares of common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. future cash dividends and the amount and timing of our stock repurchases may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to acquisitions as well as research and development, our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows, use of cash to consummate various acquisition transactions, capital requirements related to cash dividends and stock repurchase programs, changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws, and changes to our business model. our cash dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will increase our cash dividend payment or declare cash dividends in any particular amounts or at all. a reduction in our cash dividend payments or a reduction in the level of our stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price. certain provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. we have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the delaware general corporation law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, 23 a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of the board of directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. in addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are subject to overall financial market risks, such as changes in market liquidity, credit quality, investment risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk as described below. investment and interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate and general market risks relates principally to our investment portfolio, which consists of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds and marketable securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity) that total approximately $566.7 million and marketable securities (u.s. treasury and government securities, corporate bonds and notes, 33 municipal bonds) that total approximately $408.1 million and $5.2 million within short-term and long-term marketable securities, respectively, as of october 2, 2020. the main objectives of our investment activities are liquidity and preservation of capital. our cash equivalent investments have short-term maturity periods that dampen the impact of market or interest rate risk. our marketable securities consist of short-term and long-term maturity periods between 90 days and two years. credit risk associated with our investments is not material because our investments are diversified across several types of securities with high credit ratings, which reduces the amount of credit exposure to any one investment. based on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended october 2, 2020, a hypothetical reduction in the interest rates on our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments to zero would result in an immaterial reduction of interest income with a de minimis impact on income before taxes. given the low interest rate environment, the objectives of our investment activities, and the relatively low interest income generated from our cash, cash equivalents, and other investments, we do not believe that investment or interest rate risks currently pose material exposures to our business or results of operations. foreign exchange rate risk substantially all sales to customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, thereby reducing the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results. a percentage of our international operational expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rate volatility could positively or negatively impact those operating costs. for the fiscal years ended october 2, 2020, september 27, 2019, and september 28, 2018, we had foreign exchange losses of $5.9 million, $6.2 million, and $5.5 million, respectively. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices to continue doing business with us. given the relatively small number of customers and arrangements with third-party manufacturers denominated in foreign currencies, we do not believe that foreign exchange volatility has a material impact on our current business or results of operations. however, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a greater effect on our business or results of operations in the future to the extent our expenses increasingly become denominated in foreign currencies. we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. however, we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. for the fiscal year ended october 2, 2020, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward or option contracts with financial institutions. 34