risk factors 18 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial position and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry interruptions in migration patterns, including as a result of economic conditions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in construction, manufacturing, hospitality, agriculture and retail, or overall weakness in the world economies, such as that currently being experienced, could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers continues, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to adopt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our ability to compete in the markets we serve may be threatened by change, including changes in technology, changes with respect to consumer needs, competition and industry standards. we actively seek solutions that respond in a timely manner to new technology-based money transfer services such as internet, land and mobile phone-based money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. further, even if the company responds well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternatives, more technology-reliant means of money transfer may be materially less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model. our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as described under item 1 of part i, our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. these include financial services regulations, consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, escheat laws and laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security. proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world may also affect the manner in which we provide our services. in the united states, several bills pending in the senate and house of representatives could change the way that financial services companies are regulated, managed and able to present their products and services to consumers. it remains unclear how these various proposals will be reconciled and enacted, and how a final version would affect our business. however, most of the proposals have in common the creation of a new 18 table of contents consumer financial protection agency. these proposals would also give both consumers and government agencies new rights to challenge the financial services provided and would change the way financial services are presented and sold. these rights could include, for example, enhanced disclosure of foreign exchange calculations to remittance senders. such changes could be costly for us to implement and oversee, and could expose us to increased regulatory oversight and/or litigation. our services also are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as u.s. federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. failure to comply with any of these requirements by us or by our agents and their subagents (who are third parties over whom we have limited legal and practical control) could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the seizure and/or forfeiture of our assets and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. in addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or by our agents and their subagents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, we make information available to certain united states federal and state, as well as certain foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from us and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual right to privacy may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. while we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. changes in the regulatory environment may also impact the manner in which we may operate our business or may change the competitive landscape. proposed legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states may subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures, mandate additional taxes or fees to be imposed upon consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. one example of such a change is the payment services directive ( psd ) which became effective on november 1, 2009. the psd has changed the payments market in the european union ( eu ), harmonizing the licensing and certain other requirements for offering payment and other financial services, including remittances within the eu. previously, those requirements differed significantly among these countries. the psd also imposed new rules on payment service providers like western union. in particular, with the psd coming into effect, western union will become responsible for the compliance of its agents in the eu who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its eu agents and their subagents has increased. these changes could result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, or in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. the psd could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. additional countries are likely to adopt legislation similar to the psd. 19 table of contents our fees and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. for example, initiatives both in the united states and at g-8 summit meetings have focused on lowering international remittance costs. these initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. recently, one state passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions. we are working with legislators in that state to clarify the application of the fee. although there is generally no sales tax on money transfer services elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. a tax or fee on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) in the united states and similar laws in other countries, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face a higher risk associated with fcpa compliance than many other companies. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we hold property subject to escheat laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see escheat regulations for further discussion. our business is subject to various united states federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside the united states. our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network, or fincen. in addition, as a money transmitter, we are subject to licensing, regulation and examination by almost all the states and the district of columbia. with the advent of the eu payment services directive we have become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering regulations in the eu. our business in the eu is now subject to licensing, regulation and examination by our regulators in ireland and the united kingdom. if additional countries adopt money transfer legislation similar to the psd, we could become subject to licensing, regulation and examination in those locations, as well. current difficult conditions in the global financial markets, the global economic crisis and continued financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the global capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption and we face certain risks in the event that such events reoccur, including: our agents or other business relationships having reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn such as the automobile, mortgage and financial services industries. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails 20 table of contents to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other purposes. the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the derivative financial instruments that we use reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. our counterparties to our derivative instruments may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we aggregate our foreign exchange exposures in our custom house business, including the exposure generated by the derivative contracts we write to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and typically hedges the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if our customers fail to honor their obligations or if the counterparties to our offsetting positions fail to honor their obligations, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. banks upon which we rely to conduct our businesses could fail. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. an increasing portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues denominated in foreign currency. we also recently acquired canada-based custom house which provides currency conversion and foreign exchange hedging services to its customers. in order to mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. with the acquisition of custom house in the third quarter of 2009, our foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management has increased due to the nature of this business. the significant majority of custom house revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivatives contracts is generally nine months or less. custom house aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with 21 table of contents established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states and much of the cash and cash equivalents from this business are held by our foreign entities. repatriating these funds to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these funds have been taxed at foreign tax rates that are relatively low compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. if repatriation of these funds is required or if a change in legislation requires a different tax treatment, that could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. money transfers and payments to, from or within or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from or within a particular country difficult, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents and could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are material to our business. changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. from time to time, the united states congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. recent proposed changes to the united states tax laws, if enacted, could potentially adversely affect our future effective tax rate. the proposed changes include limiting tax deductions for interest related to unrepatriated foreign-source income and modifications to the united states foreign tax credit. we cannot determine whether, or in what form, legislation implementing the proposals will ultimately be enacted. if these or other changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments with respect to our international operations which were restructured in 2003, whereby our income from certain foreign-to-foreign money transfer transactions has been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. as of december 31, 2009, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits is a liability of $522.7 million, including accrued interest and penalties. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material affect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include 22 table of contents (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from the company tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could materially increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. the internal revenue service ( irs ) completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data corporation ( first data ) for 2003 and 2004, of which western union was a part, and issued a notice of deficiency in december 2008. the notice of deficiency alleges significant additional taxes, interest and penalties owed with respect to a variety of adjustments involving us and our subsidiaries, and we generally have responsibility for taxes associated with these potential company-related adjustments under the tax allocation agreement with first data executed at the time of the spin-off. we agree with a number of the adjustments in the notice of deficiency; however, we do not agree with the notice of deficiency regarding several substantial adjustments representing total alleged additional tax and penalties due of approximately $114 million. as of december 31, 2009, interest on the alleged amounts due for unagreed adjustments would be approximately $30 million. a substantial part of the alleged amounts due for these unagreed adjustments relates to our international restructuring, which took effect in the fourth quarter 2003, and, accordingly, the alleged amounts due related to such restructuring largely are attributable to 2004. on march 20, 2009, we filed a petition in the united states tax court contesting those adjustments with which we do not agree. we believe our overall reserves are adequate, including those associated with the adjustments alleged in the notice of deficiency. if the irs position in the notice of deficiency is sustained, our tax provision related to 2003 and later years would materially increase, which could materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of this matter. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we occasionally acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies. international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; complying with regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new markets with the services of the acquired business; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired 23 table of contents company operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as of december 31, 2009, we had $2,143.4 million of goodwill comprising approximately 29% of our total assets. an impairment review of goodwill is conducted at least once a year and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. if we are unsuccessful in integrating the businesses we have acquired or acquire in the future, or if these acquired businesses experience declines in operating income or cash flows, adverse changes in the business climate, or if we are unable to successfully execute our strategy for these businesses, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet associated with these acquisitions, which could have an impact on our financial position and results of operations in future periods. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we have substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2009. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. any of these requirements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, our business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. transaction volumes at existing agent and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents and subagents provide us with additional revenue. if agents or subagents decide to leave our network, if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition or changes in the economy. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. we rely on our agents information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or subagent, or if an agent or subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational harm which could result in losses to the company. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does 24 table of contents not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network effectively changing our business model could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws such as the eu payment services directive, which make western union responsible for any acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service, increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs for monitoring our agents performance. our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. a material change in the regulatory requirements necessary to offer money transfer services in a jurisdiction important to our business could mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents, which could result in the attrition of agents and subagents, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered and other negative consequences. the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, our agents in the united states are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bank secrecy act. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, some of our agents have had difficulty establishing banking relationships due to the banks credit policies. if a significant number of agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents are not exclusive, most of our western union branded agents have offered our services on an exclusive basis that is, they have agreed by contract not to provide any non-western union branded money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements generally are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. recently, several countries in the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia have promulgated laws or regulations that effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations (ngos) and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusivity continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to enforce our exclusivity rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations and revenue by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we have relationships with more than 6,300 businesses to which our consumers can make payments. these relationships are a core component of our global business payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our global business payments revenue through these relationships. if we are unable to sign new relationships or maintain our current relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. if consumers confidence in our business or in traditional money transfer providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer services. erosion in consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer providers; 25 table of contents actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer data to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses; and any breach of our security policies or legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider the migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, or if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for positions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. for example, pakistan has recently started to subsidize certain remittances into the country from pakistanis working abroad. remittance companies accepting the subsidy would be prohibited from charging fees to the sender or receiver. while the geographical extent and other details are being determined, it is an example of governmental intervention in our industry. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents are unable to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. as a result of our acquisition of custom house, we are also exposed to credit risk relating to foreign currency forward and option contracts written by us to our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us for the value of these contracts, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty. we offer consumers, primarily in the united states, the ability to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card via the internet and telephone. because they are not face-to-face transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of fraud. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. for example, during 2007, we received notification from several issuing banks that 26 table of contents credit or debit cards issued by them were blocked from transacting on westernunion.com. although these banks subsequently have allowed our consumers to use their cards again on our website, there is no certainty that these banks will not issue a similar restriction in the future, and as a result, we may continue to be impacted by notifications such as these in the future. additionally, we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, could lead to the suspension or revocation of our merchant accounts, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the remittance industry has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. a competitor of western union recently entered into a multi-year, multi-million dollar settlement with the federal trade commission over this issue. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts are effective and comply with applicable law and best practices, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers during economically difficult times, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds, an increase in government enforcement activity or a change in laws or their interpretation could pose a material challenge to us. interruptions in our systems or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. although we have taken steps to prevent systems failure, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. in addition, any strikes, work stoppages or other labor actions by employees who support our systems or perform any of our major functions could adversely affect our business. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. currently, each of the major credit rating agencies has given our outstanding indebtedness an investment grade rating. if our current rating is downgraded, or if a negative outlook is provided by a rating agency, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. this could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. in addition, if a downgrade or a negative outlook is provided by a rating agency, it could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation as well as consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits were all settled in or before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made changes in our advertising and consumer forms. it is possible that 27 table of contents because of changes in law or future litigation or regulatory action, we could be required to modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services and/or limit the amount of our foreign exchange income. in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action lawsuits, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. we recently entered into an agreement and settlement with the state of arizona regarding claims concerning our ability to prevent our service from being abused by some users to launder money or to facilitate other criminal activity. the agreement and settlement resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state. in addition to certain investments in, and changes to, our anti-money laundering compliance obligations in the region during the term of the agreement, we are required to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico will participate with arizona. the settlement relates to a number of lawsuits in which we and the state of arizona were parties. the issues in those cases related to subpoenas for transaction data and the state attempt to seize money transfers originated in states other than arizona and intended for payment in mexico. additional civil actions or any criminal actions could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the united states department of justice served one of our subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting documents in connection with an investigation into money transfers from the united states to the dominican republic during the last several years. due to the stage of the investigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of any charges that may be brought against us. over the past several years, we have entered into consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york state banking department, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to pay civil penalties and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the consent agreements with the new york state banking department and the california department of financial institutions were lifted during 2007. however, the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, asset seizures or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic and internet providers. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and global business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, atm providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, telephone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional money transfer companies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, hours of operations, loyalty programs, reliability and price. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in these industries. we have made periodic pricing decreases in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. pricing decreases generally reduce margins, but are 28 table of contents done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted above, many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. because these entities are governmental organizations, they may be able to or be required to offer their money transfer services to the public at, near or below their cost of providing such services. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential patent infringement claims. the western union brand, which is protected by trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, paymap, equity accelerator, just in time eft, pago f cil, western union quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, custom house and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business either do not recognize intellectual property rights or do not protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services which could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial position and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, agents and/or employees. further, because some data is collected and 29 table of contents stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or negligently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, consumers, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2009, we held $1.2 billion in investment securities, substantially all of which are high quality investment grade state and municipal debt obligations. the majority of this money represents the principal of money transfers sent by consumers and money orders issued by us to consumers in the united states. under the psd in the eu, we expect to have a similar portfolio of investment securities, which we will manage in a similar manner and under similar guidelines as our current portfolio. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by making high quality investments and by diversifying our investments. at december 31, 2009, the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plans has assets totaling approximately $275.9 million as of december 31, 2009. the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plans projected benefit obligation to determine the pension liability of $124.2 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2009. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.0 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. 30 table of contents risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders ( spin-off ) through this previously owned subsidiary. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data with respect to certain matters on which the irs did not rule. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and ourselves would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ( spin-off related taxes ), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short-term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with terms of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions and intercompany loans. in certain consumer money transfer and global business payments transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the british pound, canadian dollar and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the risk that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. with the acquisition of custom house in the third quarter of 2009, our foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management has increased due to the nature of this business. the significant majority of custom house revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivatives contracts is generally nine months or less. custom house aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. the foreign exchange risk is actively managed. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $27 million and $24 million, respectively, based on our forecast of consumer-to-consumer unhedged 2010 exposure to foreign currency. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest bearing assets, with a total value at december 31, 2009 of $2.7 billion. approximately $2.0 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include money market funds and state and 69 table of contents municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. substantially all of the remainder of our interest bearing assets consist of highly rated state and municipal obligations, the majority of which are fixed rate instruments. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders equity/(deficiency) on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2009, $750 million of our total $3,048.5 million in borrowings was effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing our fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with average spreads of approximately 200 basis points above libor. borrowings under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is effectively floating rate. no commercial paper borrowings were outstanding as of december 31, 2009. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs, and optimize returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. at december 31, 2009, our weighted-average interest rate on our borrowings outstanding, including our hedges, was approximately 5.1%. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $8 million and $12 million annually based on borrowings on december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2009 and 2008 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit/reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $20 million and $13 million annually, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. credit risk our interest earning assets include investment securities, substantially all of which are state and municipal debt obligations, which are classified in settlement assets and accounted for as available-for-sale securities, and money market fund investments, which are classified in cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. on september 15, 2008, we requested redemption of our shares in the reserve international liquidity fund, ltd. (the fund ), a money market fund, totaling $298.1 million. in 2009, we received partial distributions totaling $255.5 million from the fund. we continue to vigorously pursue collection of the remaining balance and believe we have a right to full payment of the remaining amount based on the written and verbal representations from the manager and our legal position. however, given the increased uncertainty surrounding the numerous third-party legal claims associated with the fund, we reserved $12 million 70 table of contents representing the estimated impact of a pro-rata distribution of the fund during 2009. as of december 31, 2009, we had a remaining receivable balance of $30.6 million, net of the related reserve, which is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. if further deterioration occurs in the underlying assets in the fund, or if the fund incurs significant legal and/or administrative costs during the distribution process, we may record additional reserves related to the remaining receivable balance, which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market investments and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. since january 1, 2009, we also limit our investment level to no more than $100 million with respect to individual funds. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our internet services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses. our losses associated with agent and consumer bad debts have been less than 1% of our revenues in all periods presented. we continue to monitor the credit worthiness of our agents, and due to the challenging economy, we have closed agents at higher rates than in prior years, primarily small retailers in the united states. closing agents may impact transactions and revenues. as a result of our acquisition of custom house, we are now exposed to credit risk relating to derivative financial instruments written by us to our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. to mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis. in addition, we may require certain customers to post collateral based on the fair value of the customer contract and their risk profile. the credit risk arising from our spot foreign currency exchange contracts is largely mitigated, as in most cases we require the receipt of funds from our customers before releasing the associated cross-currency payment. 71 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial position and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry interruptions in migration patterns, including as a result of economic conditions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in construction, manufacturing, hospitality, agriculture and retail, or overall weakness in the world economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers continues, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our ability to compete in the markets we serve may be threatened by change, including changes in technology, changes with respect to consumer needs, competition and industry standards. we actively seek solutions that respond in a timely manner to new technology-based money transfer services such as internet, phone-based money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. further, even if the company responds well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternatives, more technology-reliant means of money transfer may be materially less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model. our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as described under item 1 of part i, our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. these include financial services regulations, consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, escheat laws, competition laws and laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world may also affect the manner in which we provide our services. our services also are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their 19 table of contents governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as u.s. federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. failure to comply with any of these requirements by us or by our agents and their subagents (who are third parties over whom we have limited legal and practical control) could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the seizure and/or forfeiture of our assets and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. in addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or by our agents and their subagents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, we make information available to certain united states federal and state, as well as certain foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from us and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual right to privacy may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. while we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. changes in the regulatory environment may also impact the manner in which we may operate our business or may change the competitive landscape. recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states may subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures, mandate additional taxes or fees to be imposed upon consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. for example, our business may be adversely impacted by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the financial reform act or act ) which became law in the united states on july 21, 2010. at this time, we are unable to predict the impact on our business because many of the provisions of the act that could affect us require the adoption of rules or mandate studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory requirements. the financial reform act creates a new bureau of consumer financial protection (the consumer protection bureau ) whose purpose will be to issue and enforce consumer protection initiatives governing financial products and services, including money transfer services, which will require us to provide enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers. depending upon the final rules to be issued by the consumer protection bureau, we may need to modify our systems to provide these additional disclosures or we may be liable for the failure of our money transfer agents to comply with the act, the extent of which liability will be determined by rules not yet enacted. in addition, rules adopted under the act by other governmental agencies may subject our corporate interest rate and foreign exchange hedging transactions to centralized clearing and collateral posting requirements. also, our western union business solutions ( business solutions ) business in the united states may be subjected to increased regulatory oversight and licensing requirements relating to the foreign exchange derivative products offered to certain of its customers. other examples of such regulatory changes are the payment services directive ( psd ) in the european union ( eu ) which became effective in late 2009, and a similar law, the funds settlement act, enacted in japan in 2010. the psd has changed the payments market in the eu, harmonizing the licensing and certain other requirements for offering payment and other financial services, including remittances within the eu. previously, those requirements differed significantly among these countries. further, the psd and the japanese law imposed new rules on payment service providers like western union. in particular, western union has become responsible for the compliance of its agents and their subagents in those jurisdictions who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. 20 table of contents thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents and their subagents in those areas has increased. these changes could result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, or in the event we or our agents or their subagents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. these laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. additional countries are likely to adopt legislation similar to these laws. our fees and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. for example, initiatives both in the united states and at g-8 summit meetings have focused on lowering international remittance costs. also, pakistan subsidizes certain remittances into the country from pakistanis working abroad. remittance companies accepting the subsidy are prohibited from charging fees to the sender or receiver. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. in 2009, one state passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have recently proposed similar legislation. although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax on money transfer services elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. a tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws also prohibit commercial bribery. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face a higher risk associated with fcpa and united kingdom bribery act compliance than many other companies. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we hold property subject to escheat laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see escheat regulations for further discussion. our business is subject to various united states federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside the united states. our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network, or fincen. in addition, as a money transmitter, we are subject to licensing, regulation and examination by almost all the states and the district of columbia. with the advent of the eu psd and similar legislation in japan, we have become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering regulations in those places. our business in the eu is now subject to licensing, regulation and examination by regulators in ireland and the united kingdom. we are also now subject to such oversight in japan. if additional countries adopt similar money transfer legislation, we could become subject to licensing, regulation and examination in those locations, as well. further, we have subsidiaries that are subject to banking regulations, primarily those in brazil and austria. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york state banking department. any determination that we have violated these laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. the remittance industry has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. in 2009, a competitor of western union entered into a multi-year, multi-million dollar settlement with the federal trade commission over this issue. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts are effective and comply with 21 table of contents applicable law and best practices, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers during economically difficult times, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds, an increase in government enforcement activity or a change in laws or their interpretation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. difficult conditions in the global financial markets, the global economic crisis and continued financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the global capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption in recent years and we face certain risks if such events reoccur, including: our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other purposes. the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the derivative financial instruments that we use reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. our counterparties to our derivative instruments may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we aggregate our foreign exchange exposures in our business solutions business, including the exposure generated by the derivative contracts we write to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if our customers fail to honor their obligations or if the counterparties to our offsetting positions fail to honor their obligations, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. banks upon which we rely to conduct our businesses could fail. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 22 table of contents risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. an increasing portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues denominated in foreign currencies. our business solutions business provides currency conversion and foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. our foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management is greater in our business solutions business due to the nature of this business. the significant majority of business solutions revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivatives contracts is generally nine months or less. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states and much of the cash and cash equivalents from this business are held by our foreign entities. repatriating these funds to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these funds have been taxed at foreign tax rates that are relatively low compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. if repatriation of these funds is required or if a change in legislation requires a different tax treatment, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense below. money transfers and payments to, from or within or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from or within a particular country difficult, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries and could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are material to our business. changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. from time to time, the united states congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. if changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 23 table of contents our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments with respect to our international operations which were restructured in 2003, whereby our income from certain foreign-to-foreign money transfer transactions has been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. as of december 31, 2010, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits is a liability of $671.1 million, including accrued interest and penalties. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from the company tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could materially increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could materially impact our operating cash flows. the internal revenue service ( irs ) completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data corporation ( first data ) for 2003 and 2004, of which western union was a part, and issued a notice of deficiency in december 2008. the notice of deficiency alleges significant additional taxes, interest and penalties owed with respect to a variety of adjustments involving us and our subsidiaries, and we generally have responsibility for taxes associated with these potential company-related adjustments under the tax allocation agreement with first data executed at the time of the spin-off. we agree with a number of the adjustments in the notice of deficiency; however, we do not agree with the notice of deficiency regarding several substantial adjustments representing total alleged additional tax and penalties due of approximately $114 million. as of december 31, 2010, interest on the alleged amounts due for unagreed adjustments would be approximately $36 million. a substantial part of the alleged amounts due for these unagreed adjustments relates to our international restructuring, which took effect in the fourth quarter 2003, and, accordingly, the alleged amounts due related to such restructuring largely are attributable to 2004. in september 2010, irs counsel referred the case to the irs appeals division for possible settlement. on march 20, 2009, we filed a petition in the united states tax court contesting those adjustments with which we do not agree. we believe our overall reserves are adequate, including those associated with the adjustments alleged in the notice of deficiency. if the irs position in the notice of deficiency is sustained, our tax provision related to 2003 and later years would materially increase, which could materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. an examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data that cover the company 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods is ongoing, as is an examination of the company united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period, 2007 and 2008. the irish income tax returns of certain subsidiaries for the years 2006 and forward are eligible to be examined by the irish tax authorities, although no examinations have commenced. see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of this matter. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation as well as consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits were all settled in or before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made changes in our advertising and consumer forms. it is possible that because of changes in law or future litigation or regulatory action, we could be required to modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services, limit the amount of our foreign exchange income and/or change our consumers behavior. 24 table of contents in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action lawsuits, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. in february 2010, we signed an agreement and settlement with the state of arizona and other states regarding claims concerning our ability to prevent our service from being abused by some users to launder money or to facilitate other criminal activity. the agreement and settlement resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state. in addition to certain investments in, and changes to, our anti-money laundering compliance obligations in the region during the term of the agreement, we are required to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico will participate with arizona. the settlement relates to a number of lawsuits in which we and the state of arizona were parties. the issues in those cases related to subpoenas for transaction data and the state attempt to seize money transfers originated in states other than arizona and intended for payment in mexico. additional civil actions or any criminal actions could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. in the second quarter of 2009, the antitrust division of the united states department of justice ( doj ) served one of our subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting documents in connection with an investigation into money transfers, including related foreign exchange rates, from the united states to the dominican republic from 2004 through the date of the subpoena. the company is cooperating fully with the doj investigation. due to the stage of the investigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against us. should such charges or claims be brought, we could face significant fines, damage awards or regulatory consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are a defendant in two purported class action lawsuits: james p. tennille v. the western union company, and robert p. smet v. the western union company, both of which are pending in the united states district court for the district of colorado. the complaints assert claims for violation of various consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, conversion and declaratory relief, based on allegations that we wait too long to inform consumers if their money transfers are not redeemed by the recipients and that we use the unredeemed funds to generate income until the funds are escheated to state governments. the tennille complaint was served on us on april 27, 2009. the smet complaint was served on us on april 6, 2010. on september 21, 2009, the court granted our motion to dismiss the tennille complaint and gave the plaintiff leave to file an amended complaint. on october 21, 2009, tennille filed an amended complaint. we moved to dismiss the tennille amended complaint and the smet complaint. on november 8, 2010, the court denied our motion to dismiss as to the plaintiffs unjust enrichment and conversion claims. on february 4, 2011, the court dismissed plaintiffs consumer protection claims. the plaintiffs have not sought and the court has not granted class certification. we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against both lawsuits. however, due to the preliminary stages of these lawsuits, the fact the plaintiffs have not quantified their damage demands, and the uncertainty as to whether they will ever be certified as class actions, we are unable to determine the potential outcome. over the past several years, we have entered into consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york state banking department, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to pay civil penalties and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the consent agreements with the new york state banking department and the california department of financial institutions were lifted during 2008. however, the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, asset seizures or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 25 table of contents acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; complying with regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new markets with the services of the acquired business; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as of december 31, 2010, we had $2,151.7 million of goodwill comprising approximately 27% of our total assets. an impairment review of goodwill is conducted at least once a year and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. if we are unsuccessful in integrating the businesses we have acquired or acquire in the future, or if these acquired businesses experience declines in operating income or cash flows, adverse changes in the business climate, or if we are unable to successfully execute our strategy for these businesses, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet associated with these acquisitions, which could have an impact on our financial position and results of operations in future periods. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we have substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2010. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. any of these requirements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 26 table of contents if consumers confidence in our business or in traditional money transfer providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer services. erosion in consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer providers; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer data to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses; and any breach of our security policies or legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider the migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, or if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for positions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. in our business solutions business, we are also exposed to credit risk relating to foreign currency forward and option contracts written by us to our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us for the value of these contracts, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty. 27 table of contents we offer consumers, primarily in the united states, the ability to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card via the internet and telephone. because they are not face-to-face transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of fraud. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. for example, during 2007, we received notification from several issuing banks that credit or debit cards issued by them were blocked from transacting on westernunion.com. although these banks subsequently have allowed our consumers to use their cards again on our website, there is no certainty that these banks will not issue a similar restriction in the future, and as a result, we may continue to be impacted by notifications such as these in the future. additionally, we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial position and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, agents and/or employees. further, because some data is collected and stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or negligently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, consumers, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. interruptions in our systems or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. although we have taken steps to prevent systems failure, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the united states, who support our systems or perform any of our major functions could adversely affect our business. 28 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, our business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. transaction volumes at existing agent and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents and subagents provide us with additional revenue. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition or changes in the economy. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. we rely on our agents information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or subagent, or if an agent or subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational harm which could result in losses to the company. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network effectively changing our business model could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for any acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents performance. our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. a material change in the regulatory requirements necessary to offer money transfer services in a jurisdiction important to our business could mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents, which could result in the attrition of agents and subagents, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered and other negative consequences. the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, our agents in the united states are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bank secrecy act. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, some of our domestic and international agents have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks policies. if a significant number of agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents are not exclusive, most of our western union branded agents have offered our services on an exclusive basis that is, they have agreed by contract not to provide any non-western union branded money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. recently, several countries in the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations that effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer 29 table of contents companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations (ngos) and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusivity continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to enforce our exclusivity rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations and revenue by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we have relationships with more than 6,400 businesses to which our customers can make payments. these relationships are a core component of our global business payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our global business payments revenue through these relationships. if we are unable to sign new relationships or maintain our current relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. currently, each of the major credit rating agencies has given our outstanding indebtedness an investment grade rating. if our current rating is downgraded, or if a negative outlook is provided by a rating agency, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. this could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. in addition, if a downgrade or a negative outlook is provided by a rating agency, it could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic and internet providers. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and global business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, atm providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, telephone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional money transfer companies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, hours of operations, loyalty programs, reliability and price. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in these industries. we have made periodic pricing decreases in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. pricing decreases generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted above, many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. because these entities are governmental organizations, they may be able to or be required to offer their money transfer services to the public at, near or below their cost of providing such services. 30 table of contents our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential patent infringement claims. the western union brand, which is protected by trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, paymap, equity accelerator, just in time eft, pago f cil, western union payments, western union quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business either do not recognize intellectual property rights or do not protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services which could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2010, we held $1.4 billion in investment securities, substantially all of which are high quality investment grade state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money transfers sent by consumers and money orders issued by us to consumers in the united states. under the psd in the eu, we expect to have a similar portfolio of investment securities, which we will manage in a similar manner and under similar guidelines as our current portfolio. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by making high quality investments and by diversifying our investments. at december 31, 2010, the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plans has assets totaling approximately $290.1 million as of december 31, 2010. the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plans projected benefit obligation to determine the pension liability of $112.8 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2010. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the 31 table of contents future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $3.3 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders ( spin-off ) through this previously owned subsidiary. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data with respect to certain matters on which the irs did not rule. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and ourselves would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. 32 table of contents even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ( spin-off related taxes ), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short-term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with terms of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions and intercompany loans. in certain consumer money transfer and global business payments transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the british pound, canadian dollar and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. with the acquisition of custom house in the third quarter of 2009, our foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management has increased due to the nature of this business. the significant majority of custom house revenue, now known as western union business solutions ( business solutions ), is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivatives contracts is generally nine months or less. our business solutions business aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. the foreign exchange risk is actively managed. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $32 million and $27 million, respectively, based on our forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest bearing assets, with a total value at december 31, 2010 of $3.3 billion. approximately $2.5 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include money market funds and state and municipal variable rate securities 71 table of contents and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. substantially all of the remainder of our interest bearing assets consist of fixed rate instruments, the substantial majority of which are highly rated state and municipal debt securities. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2010, $1.2 billion of our total $3.3 billion in borrowings was effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing our fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with average spreads of approximately 500 basis points above libor. borrowings under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is effectively floating rate. no commercial paper borrowings were outstanding as of and for the year ended december 31, 2010. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs, and optimize returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. at december 31, 2010, our weighted-average interest rate on our borrowings outstanding, including our hedges, was approximately 5.2%. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $12 million and $8 million annually based on borrowings on december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2010 and 2009 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit/reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $25 million and $20 million annually, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. credit risk our interest earning assets include investment securities, substantially all of which are state and municipal debt securities, which are classified in settlement assets and accounted for as available-for-sale securities, and money market fund investments, which are classified in cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. since january 1, 2009, we also limit our investment level to no more than $100 million with respect to individual money market funds. 72 table of contents we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our internet services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses. our losses associated with bad debts have been less than 1% of our revenues in all periods presented. we are also exposed to credit risk relating to derivative financial instruments written by us to our customers in our business solutions business. the duration of these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. to mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis and we may require certain customers to post collateral or increase collateral based on the fair value of the customer contract and their risk profile. the credit risk arising from our spot foreign currency exchange contracts is largely mitigated, as in most cases we require the receipt of funds from our customers before releasing the associated cross-currency payment. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial position and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. the following is a description of some important factors that may cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. the risks identified below are not all-encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of the company future operations. risks relating to our business and industry if we are unable to maintain our agent network, our business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. most of our revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships for which we have no direct relationship. transaction volumes at existing agent and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents and subagents provide us with additional revenue. if agents decide to leave our network, if we are unable to sign new agents, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. our business is subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as described under item 1 of part 1, our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. these include financial services regulations, consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, escheat laws and laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security. our services also are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activity. for example, certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the treasury department office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as federal and state legislative and regulatory scrutiny and action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. failure to comply with any of these requirements by either us, our agents or subagents (both of which are third parties, over which we have limited legal and practical control) could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. in addition to those direct costs, a failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in connection with governmental efforts to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to united states federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies. in recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from western union and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to concerns about consumer privacy, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to address issues of data protection, information security and privacy. these two policy goals the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the protection of consumer privacy may 23 table of contents conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. while we believe that western union is compliant with its legal responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in this area are rapidly evolving, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to liability and reputational damage. as noted above, most of our revenue is derived through our agent network. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network effectively changing our business model could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. our fees may be reduced because of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. for example, recent initiatives both in the united states and at g-8 summit meetings have focused on lowering international remittance costs. these initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. a material change in the regulatory requirements necessary to offer money transfer services in a jurisdiction important to our business could mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents, which could result in the attrition of agents and subagents, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered and other negative consequences. the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, our agents in the united states are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bank secrecy act. an increasing number of financial institutions view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. as a result, several financial institutions have terminated their banking relationships with some of our agents and with us, principally related to our vigo business. if a significant number of agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo agents are not exclusive, nearly all of the western union branded agents offer our services on an exclusive basis that is, they have agreed by contract not to provide any non-western union branded money transfer services. while we believe that these agreements generally are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. for example, russia and ukraine have each enacted laws that effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with banks in those countries. the inability to enforce our exclusivity rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations and revenue by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and consumer payments are highly competitive industries comprised of players from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, atm providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, telephone payment systems 24 table of contents (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional money transfer companies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, hours of operations, loyalty programs, reliability and price. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in these industries. we have made periodic pricing decreases in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. pricing decreases generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes. such consumer-to-consumer pricing decreases have averaged approximately 3% of our annual revenues over the last three years. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation could significantly affect our future growth potential and related profitability. recently, card associations have become more active in promoting stored-value cards and other services that compete with our money transfer and consumer payments businesses. these associations, as well as debit networks, can be effective competitors because of the ubiquity of their brands, their large number of financial institution issuers and their extensive merchant networks. in addition, we offer consumers the ability to use debit cards in connection with certain of our services. the card associations and debit networks set the charge, known as an interchange fee, that we as a merchant must pay for accepting their cards. their association and network rules also categorize transactions or cause us to categorize transactions in a manner that can affect the cost of the transaction to us or the consumer. changes to interchange fees could increase our costs to accept cards in payment for services, while changes in how our services are categorized could make the use of cards to pay for our services less attractive to the consumer. many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. because these entities are governmental organizations, they may be able to or be required to offer their money transfer services at, near or below their cost of providing such services. risks associated with operations outside the united states could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. because an increasing portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar, we are subject to risks related to changes in currency rates and foreign exchange regulation (such as the ability to repatriate funds to the united states, and the cost of repatriation). we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the risks associated with changes in foreign currency. however, these derivative contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to foreign currency translation. money transfers to, from or within or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from or within a particular country difficult, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents and could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. as noted above, many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow 25 table of contents post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute and offer our services in countries that are material to our business. interruptions in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns, which bring workers into countries with greater economic opportunities than their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers is initiated by immigrants. changes in immigration laws, such as those currently being considered by the united states and its government, economic development patterns that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our remittance volume or growth rate and could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. for example, during 2006, the united states to mexico and united states domestic businesses, and to a lesser extent united states outbound businesses, were adversely impacted by the immigration debate and related activities in the united states. this controversy around the subject of immigration and the changes in the approach of various government entities to the regulation of businesses that employ or sell to immigrants has created fear and distrust among some consumers in the united states. as a result, the frequency of money transfer transactions involving these consumers has decreased and some competitors have lowered prices and foreign exchange spreads in certain markets. these and other issues adversely affected our mexico and united states domestic businesses, and to a lesser extent our u.s. outbound business in 2006 and we expect them to continue to impact our businesses in the future. if consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally deteriorates, our business, revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer services. any erosion in consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, revenue and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, including: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer providers; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators, including those that threaten the reliability of our money transfer services, such as the recent attempts by the arizona attorney general to seize money transfer funds from states other than arizona to sonora, mexico; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses; and any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax costs, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments with respect to our foreign business which was restructured in 2003. our reserves 26 table of contents reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve. any difference from our position as recorded in our consolidated financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue will be reflected in our income tax expense in the period during which the issue is resolved. such resolution could also affect our effective tax rate for future periods. to address certain tax aspects of the 2003 restructuring of our international operations, discussions were initiated with the internal revenue service pursuant to the internal revenue service advance pricing agreement, or apa, program. we were notified by the internal revenue service in october 2006, however, that we will not be able to conclude an arrangement acceptable to us through the apa program and, therefore, expect that the tax aspects of the 2003 restructuring will be addressed as part of the ongoing federal income tax audit. we have benefited from the 2003 restructuring by having our income from certain foreign-to-foreign money transfer transactions taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates rather than the u.s. and state combined statutory tax rate. the amount of taxes attributable to such rate differential is included in the foreign rate differential line in the effective rate reconciliation in note 10 income taxes to our consolidated financial statements and cumulatively totaled $210.8 million through december 31, 2006. acquisitions and integrating new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we occasionally acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating systems that may not have been designed or maintained to the same standards as those in the united states; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our ability to adopt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our ability to compete in the markets we serve may be threatened by change, including changes in technology, changes with respect to consumer needs, competition and industry standards. we actively seek solutions that respond in a timely manner to new technology-based money transfer services such as internet, land 27 table of contents and mobile phone based money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation as well as consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits all have been settled without an admission of liability, and we have made certain changes in our advertising and consumer forms. it is possible that because of changes in law or future litigation or regulatory action, we could be required to modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services and/or limit the amount of our foreign exchange income. in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. we are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unredeemed money transfers. we hold property subject to escheat laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audit with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see escheat regulations for further discussion. our consumer payments business is subject to various united states federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside the united states. our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of treasury financial crimes enforcement network, or fincen. in addition, as a money transmitter, we are subject to licensing, regulation and examination by almost all the states and the district of columbia. over the past several years, we have entered into a number of consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york state banking department, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to pay civil penalties and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, enforcement actions or similar consent agreements in the future that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential patent infringement claims. the western union brand, consisting of trademark registrations in various countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo and pago f&aacute;cil service marks 28 table of contents and the orlandi valuta, speedpay, western union quick collect and paymap trademarks are important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business either do not recognize intellectual property rights or do not protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we have been, and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both in and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. interruptions in our systems may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control. although we have taken steps to prevent a system failure, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, changing market conditions or other developments. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial position and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions in which our services are available. these requirements, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of consumers personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data could expose us to regulatory enforcement action, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. we face credit and fraud risks from our agents and from consumers that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks are comprised of agents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer. 29 table of contents from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we offer consumers the ability to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card through various distribution channels such as the internet or telephone. because they are not face-to-face transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of fraud. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools may not always be successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions on our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders on those channels with or without notice. we have received notification recently from several issuing banks that credit or debit cards issued by them are blocked from transacting on westernunion.com at this time. the company is uncertain of the potential impact that these notifications may have over time. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. in addition, our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately $3.3 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional substantial indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. it is important to our business to maintain an investment grade long-term credit rating. currently, each of the major credit rating agencies has given our outstanding indebtedness an investment grade rating. if our current rating is downgraded, or if ratings agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. this could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. in addition, a downgrade or an indication that a downgrade may occur also could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. as noted above, we have incurred substantial indebtedness. as a result, our stockholders deficiency as of december 31, 2006 was $314.8 million. our regulators likely will expect us to possess sufficient financial 30 table of contents soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could be subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. any of these requirements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we previously identified a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal control related to compliance with sfas no. 133. based upon an evaluation of our documentation of hedging arrangements in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended and interpreted ( sfas no. 133 ), we concluded that our foreign exchange forward contracts did not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting since the initial documentation with respect to these instruments did not meet the technical requirements of sfas no. 133. accordingly, we previously restated our historical financial statements. in september 2006, we implemented new internal control procedures to improve the effectiveness of our review over accounting for derivative financial instruments and to ensure that these transactions are accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america. these remedial actions included an additional review by a combination of internal and external personnel of hedging strategies and related documentation prior to implementing new or modified strategies, processes or documentation to ensure hedge accounting is appropriately applied with respect to sfas no. 133. in addition, we have revised and improved the documentation required at the initiation of a derivative instrument and also during the required periodic reviews. we will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these processes, procedures and controls, and will make any further changes as management determines appropriate. although we believe that we have identified the issues and taken adequate steps to cause our accounting practices to comply with sfas no. 133, there can be no assurance that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. any failure to sufficiently address this material weakness, or the identification of additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. risks relating to the spin-off we may not realize the potential benefits from the spin-off. we may not realize the potential benefits that we expect from our spin-off from first data. in addition, we have incurred and will incur significant costs, including those described below, which may exceed our estimates. our historical consolidated financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows nor does it reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. our historical consolidated financial information included in this annual report on form 10-k does not reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. this is primarily a result of the following factors: our historical consolidated financial results reflect allocation of expenses from first data. those allocations may be lower than the comparable expenses we would have incurred as a stand-alone company. our working capital requirements historically were satisfied as part of first data corporate-wide cash management policies. following the spin-off, our cost of debt and our capitalization are significantly different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements. 31 table of contents significant changes in our cost structure, financing and business operations are occurring as a result of our spin-off from first data, including the costs for us to establish our operating infrastructure and costs related to being a stand-alone company. please refer to item 7 of part ii and our historical consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this annual report on 10-k. we are incurring significant expenses to create the infrastructure necessary to operate as a stand-alone company, and we will experience increased on-going costs in connection with being a stand-alone company. prior to the spin-off, we used first data infrastructure to support our business functions, including the telecommunications system that supported our operations and the systems that provided for accounting and financial reporting, accounts payable and receivable processing, procurement and human resource management. the expenses related to establishing and maintaining these infrastructures were spread among all of the first data businesses. as a result of the spin-off, we no longer have access to first data infrastructure, and we are in the process of establishing our own, at a significant cost. first data also performed many important corporate functions for us, including treasury, tax administration, accounting, financial reporting, human resources, employee benefits and incentives, legal, procurement and other services. prior to the spin-off, we paid first data for these services on a cost-allocation basis. as a result of the spin-off, first data is continuing to provide some of these services to us on a transitional basis for a period of up to one year, pursuant to a transition services agreement we entered into with first data. for more information regarding the transition services agreement, see our relationship with first data . at the end of this transition period, we will need to perform these functions ourselves or hire third parties to perform these functions on our behalf. the costs associated with performing or outsourcing these functions will, in our estimate, exceed those charged by first data when we were part of first data or during the transition period. a significant increase in the costs of performing or outsourcing these functions could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. prior to the spin-off, our business benefited from first data purchasing power when procuring goods and services, including telecommunications services, computer hardware and software licenses, office supplies and equipment and travel services. as a stand-alone company, we may be unable to obtain goods and services at comparable prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained prior to the spin-off, which could decrease our overall profitability. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, our company could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to first data, us and first data stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data with respect to the matters on which the internal revenue service did not rule. although a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service generally is binding on the internal revenue service, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request, including those described above, were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then first data will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the internal revenue service will not rule on whether a distribution such as a spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the internal revenue code. rather, the private letter ruling was based upon representations by first data that those requirements would be satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. 32 table of contents the spin-off was conditioned upon first data receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the internal revenue service did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion assumed the effectiveness of the internal revenue service private letter ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service or the courts, and the internal revenue service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. western union is not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations relied upon in the private letter ruling or the opinion of counsel to be untrue or incomplete in any material respect. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed in connection with the spin-off (and certain related transactions), as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences, as set forth in the private letter ruling, under the terms of the tax allocation agreement we entered into with first data prior to the spin-off, we will be liable to first data for any such taxes or liabilities attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us, one of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof. see item 1 of part i. in addition, we will be liable for 50% of any such taxes or liabilities (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such taxes or liabilities. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our separation from first data could have negative consequences on our effective tax rate. as a result of the spin-off, we are no longer able to file a consolidated u.s. federal income tax return with first data. as a consequence, net operating and capital losses, credits and other tax attributes generated by the first data group are not available to offset income earned or taxes owed by our consolidated group for u.s. federal income tax purposes. any benefits relating to taxes arising from being part of the larger first data group also may not be available. as a result of these and other inefficiencies, the aggregate amount of u.s. federal income tax that we pay may increase and, in addition, we may not be able to realize fully certain of our deferred tax assets. we have accumulated approximately $829.5 million of foreign earnings at december 31, 2006, for which no provision has been made for u.s. federal income taxes on those foreign earnings. we intend to reinvest those funds in foreign business as investment needs and opportunities arise, such as the recent acquisition of sepsa. if such foreign investment needs and opportunities are not sufficient at some point in the future, we could be required to report incremental u.s. federal income tax on the excess foreign earnings whether or not actually repatriated. under such circumstances, our effective tax rate would increase. under some circumstances, we could be prevented from engaging in strategic or capital raising transactions, and we could be liable to first data for any resulting adverse tax consequences. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of 33 table of contents first data stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions of first data stock or our stock, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition of first data stock or our stock, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. the process for determining whether a change in control prohibited under the foregoing rules has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. if a direct or indirect acquisition of first data stock or our stock resulted in a change in control prohibited under those rules, first data (but not its stockholders) would recognize taxable gain. under the tax allocation agreement, we will be required to indemnify first data against any such tax liabilities attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us (including certain of our affiliates). in addition, we will be liable for 50% of any such tax liabilities (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such tax liabilities. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. see item 1 of part i. as a result, we may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us. our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are now subject. if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of first data, and our reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. however, we were not directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the exchange act. as a result of the spin-off, we are directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the exchange act. beginning with our annual report for 2007, we will also be subject to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. furthermore, we need to compile and submit data for financial service regulators (such as various state banking regulators and european central banks). these reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. to comply with these requirements, we are in the process of upgrading our systems, including information technology, implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hiring additional accounting and finance staff. if we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. foreign exchange risk is managed through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in the agents local currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients. thus, we 67 table of contents generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated. in certain consumer money transfer transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency helping to further provide protection against currency fluctuations. our policy is not to speculate in foreign currencies and we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on transactions denominated primarily in the euro and british pound. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities of one year or less, to mitigate some of the risk related to forecasted revenues, however, during february 2007, we revised certain guidelines, and are planning to extend the duration of our foreign currency forward contracts used to mitigate these risks. we had historically intended to apply hedge accounting to these derivatives which produced financial statement results that appeared to be consistent with the economics of these transactions. however, based upon an evaluation of our initial hedge documentation, we determined that our hedge documentation was not adequate at the inception of the derivative agreements to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and accordingly, have previously restated our financial statements. as a result, changes in the fair market value of our outstanding derivative instruments, which are impacted primarily by fluctuations in the euro, have been recognized in derivative (losses)/gains, net for all derivatives entered into prior to september 29, 2006. had these instruments qualified for hedge accounting treatment, the effective portion of the changes to the fair value of our derivative instruments would have been recognized on our consolidated balance sheets and would not have directly impacted our net income until such instruments matured. the failure of these instruments to qualify for hedge accounting treatment resulted in volatility in our net income for the periods presented prior to september 30, 2006. for example, during the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we had pre-tax derivative (losses)/gains of $(21.2) million, $45.8 million and $(30.2) million, respectively. on september 29, 2006, we re-established our foreign currency forward positions to qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. as a result, on a go-forward basis, we anticipate significantly less volatility in our consolidated statements of income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are denominated would result in a decrease/increase to pretax income of approximately $27 million as of december 31, 2006. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates a portion of our investments are fixed rate interest-bearing securities, which may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, record these instruments at their fair market value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders deficiency on our consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair market value of these securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair market values of the securities. currently, the majority of our investments are floating interest rate investments. interest income on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short term interest rates. as of december 31, 2006, $500 million of our total $3.3 billion in debt is based on floating interest rates. we revised certain guidelines in february 2007 and are planning, through the use of hedges, to increase the 68 table of contents percent of floating rate debt in the future, subject to market conditions. the interest rate on our floating debt is based on libor plus 15 basis points and is reset on a quarterly basis. additionally, as of december 31, 2006, $324.6 million of our $3.3 billion in borrowings represented commercial paper with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.4% and a weighted-average initial term of 17 days. considering the interest rates associated with our fixed and floating rate debt, as well as the interest rates on our commercial paper, our weighted average interest rate on our borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2006 was approximately 5.7%. a hypothetical uniform 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease to pretax income of approximately $4 million annually based on floating rate borrowings that existed on december 31, 2006. the same 10% increase in interest rates, if applied to current yields on our cash and investment balances at december 31, 2006, would result in an offsetting benefit to pre-tax income of $ 6 million annually. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial position and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. the following is a description of some important factors that may cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. the risks identified below are not all-encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of the company future operations. risks relating to our business and industry if we are unable to maintain our agent or biller networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, our business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships for which we have no direct relationship. transaction volumes at existing agent and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents and subagents provide us with additional revenue. if agents decide to leave our network, if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. in some cases, we rely on our agents information systems and processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or sub-agent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or sub-agent, or if an agent or sub-agent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational harm which could result in losses to the company. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network effectively changing our business model could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. a material change in the regulatory requirements necessary to offer money transfer services in a jurisdiction important to our business could mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents, which could result in the attrition of agents and subagents, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered and other negative consequences. the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, our agents in the united states are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bank secrecy act. an increasing number of financial institutions view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. as a result, several financial institutions have terminated their banking relationships with some of our agents and with us. if a significant number of agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. 24 table of contents although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo agents are not exclusive, nearly all of the western union branded agents offer our services on an exclusive basis that is, they have agreed by contract not to provide any non-western union branded money transfer services. while we believe that these agreements generally are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. for example, russia and ukraine have each enacted laws that effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with banks in those countries. the inability to enforce our exclusivity rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations and revenue by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we have relationships with more than 6,000 businesses and other billers, including approximately 1,800 biller relationships relating to pago f&aacute;cil, which was acquired in december 2006. these relationships are a core component of our consumer-to-business payment services, and we derive a substantial portion of our consumer-to-business revenue through these biller relationships. if we are unable to sign new billers or maintain our biller relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as described under item 1 of part 1, our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. these include financial services regulations, consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, escheat laws and laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security. our services also are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activity. for example, certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the treasury department office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as federal and state legislative and regulatory scrutiny and action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. failure to comply with any of these requirements by either us, our agents or subagents (both of which are third parties, over which we have limited legal and practical control) could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. in addition to those direct costs, a failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, we make information available to united states federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies, when required by law. in recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from us and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the protection of consumer privacy may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. while we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. 25 table of contents changes in the regulatory environment may also impact the manner in which we may operate our business or may change the competitive landscape. one example of such a change is the payment services directive ( psd ) which was adopted in the european union ( eu ) in november 2007. we expect that the psd will influence changes in the cross border payment services market in the eu. under the psd, the licensing and other legal requirements for offering these services within eu countries will be harmonized. currently, the laws regarding licensing and the provision of these services differ significantly among these countries. the psd will also impose new rules on payment service providers like western union and certain of its eu-based agents and on banks and non-bank payments services providers which may offer these services. the psd will be effective on november 1, 2009. such changes could result in increased costs to comply with these new rules, or in the event we are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, our fees may be reduced because of regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. for example, initiatives both in the united states and at g-8 summit meetings have focused on lowering international remittance costs. these initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. interruptions in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns, which bring workers into countries with greater economic opportunities than their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers is initiated by immigrants. changes in immigration laws, such as those currently being considered in the united states, economic development patterns that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our remittance volume or growth rate and could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. for example, for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 the united states to mexico, united states domestic and the united states outbound businesses were adversely impacted by the immigration debate in the united states. we responded by adding distribution, reducing prices, and executing advertising, promotion and community outreach initiatives, however, we have not seen transaction and revenue growth rates return to levels prior to 2006. in addition, weaknesses in the united states economy, including weaknesses in the construction industry, are also impacting united states based businesses. a deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. as noted above, our money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns. these migration patterns are affected by, among other things, the availability of job opportunities and overall economic conditions. reduced job opportunities or an overall slowdown in the economy in the united states or other countries could adversely affect our results of operations. for example, for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, our united states to mexico and united states outbound and domestic businesses were adversely impacted by general market softness, in part due to a slow down in the construction industry in the united states. if general market softness in the united states economy deteriorates further, or if weaknesses in those parts of national economies important to immigrant workers occur in other countries, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 26 table of contents if consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally deteriorates, our business, revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer services. any erosion in consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, revenue and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer providers; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators, including those that threaten the reliability of our money transfer services, such as the attempts by the arizona attorney general in 2006 to seize money transfer funds from states other than arizona to sonora, mexico; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses; and any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data. many of our consumers are immigrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider the immigrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees, or if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for positions that are detrimental to our business, our business, and results of operations could be adversely affected. risks associated with operations outside the united states could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. because an increasing portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar, we are subject to risks related to changes in currency rates and foreign exchange regulation (such as the ability to repatriate funds to the united states, and the cost of repatriation). we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the risks associated with changes in foreign currency. however, these derivative contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to foreign currency translation. money transfers to, from or within or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from or within a particular country difficult, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents and could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we are experiencing high transaction and revenue growth rates, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. 27 table of contents as noted above, many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are material to our business. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and consumer payments are highly competitive industries comprised of players from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, atm providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, telephone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional money transfer companies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, hours of operations, loyalty programs, reliability and price. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in these industries. we have made periodic pricing decreases in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. pricing decreases generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes. such consumer-to-consumer pricing decreases have averaged approximately 3% of our annual revenues over the last three years. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation could significantly affect our future growth potential and related profitability. recently, card associations have become more active in promoting stored-value cards and other services that compete with our money transfer and consumer payments businesses. these associations, as well as debit networks, can be effective competitors because of the ubiquity of their brands, their large number of financial institution issuers and their extensive merchant networks. in addition, we offer consumers the ability to use debit cards in connection with certain of our services. the card associations and debit networks set the interchange fee, that we as a merchant must pay for accepting their cards. their association and network rules also categorize transactions or cause us to categorize transactions in a manner that can affect the cost of the transaction to us or the consumer. changes to interchange fees could increase our costs to accept cards in payment for services, while changes in how our services are categorized could make the use of cards to pay for our services less attractive to the consumer. many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. because these entities are governmental organizations, they may be able to or be required to offer their money transfer services at, near or below their cost of providing such services. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for material, known tax exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments with respect to our international operations which were restructured in 2003, whereby our income from certain foreign-to-foreign money transfer transactions has been taxed at 28 table of contents relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material affect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from the company tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we occasionally acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, complying with regulatory requirements, including anti-money laundering requirements, is another risk associated with acquiring companies, especially companies which have not previously been subject to such regulations. international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating systems that may not have been designed or maintained to the same standards as those in the united states; complying with foreign and domestic regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as of december 31, 2007, we had $1,639.5 million of goodwill comprising approximately 28% of our total assets. an impairment review of goodwill is conducted at least once a year and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. if we are unsuccessful in integrating the businesses we have acquired or acquire in the future, or if these acquired businesses experience declines in operating income or cash flows, adverse changes in the business climate, or if we are unable to successfully execute our strategy for these businesses, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet associated with these acquisitions, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations in future periods. 29 table of contents our ability to adopt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our ability to compete in the markets we serve may be threatened by change, including changes in technology, changes with respect to consumer needs, competition and industry standards. we actively seek solutions that respond in a timely manner to new technology-based money transfer services such as internet, land and mobile phone based money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation as well as consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits were all settled in or before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made changes in our advertising and consumer forms. it is possible that because of changes in law or future litigation or regulatory action, we could be required to modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services and/or limit the amount of our foreign exchange income. in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. we are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unredeemed money transfers. we hold property subject to escheat laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audit with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see escheat regulations for further discussion. our consumer payments business is subject to various united states federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside the united states. our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of treasury financial crimes enforcement network, or fincen. in addition, as a money transmitter, we are subject to licensing, regulation and examination by almost all the states and the district of columbia. over the past several years, we have entered into a number of consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york state banking department, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to pay civil penalties and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the consent agreements with the new york state banking department and the california department of financial institutions were lifted during 2007; however, the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bank secrecy act and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, enforcement actions or similar consent agreements in the future that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 30 table of contents our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential patent infringement claims. the western union brand, consisting of trademark registrations in various countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, paymap, equity accelerator, just in time eft, pago f&aacute;cil (registered in argentina), western union quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business either do not recognize intellectual property rights or do not protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both in and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. interruptions in our systems may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control. although we have taken steps to prevent a system failure, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, changing market conditions or other developments. any disruptions caused by our work force could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. western union has two four-year labor contracts (both expiring august 6, 2008) with the communications workers of america, afl-cio ( cwa ) representing approximately 845 employees as of december 31, 2007. approximately 825 of these employees are covered by one of these labor contracts and are located in texas and missouri. these employees staff certain of our call center facilities or work in our settlement and operational accounting functions. on february 25, 2008, the company decided to pursue decision bargaining negotiations with the cwa regarding the possible closure of the company facilities in bridgeton, missouri, st. charles, missouri and dallas, texas. the company intends to communicate this decision to the cwa as soon as possible in order to commence negotiations. the company expects to be engaged in decision bargaining with the cwa for the next 60 days. the decision bargaining process could result in a new collective bargaining agreement with the cwa. the decision bargaining process could also result in a decision by the company to proceed to implement the closure of these facilities. in that event, the company would proceed to announce the closure and would be available to engage in effects bargaining with the cwa, and we would expect the closure and relocation of operations to be completed in the second half of 2008. an inability to reach a timely agreement with the cwa or a decision to close, and the closure, of any or all of these facilities may result in nonrecurring costs and expenses, 31 table of contents disputes with the union, potential disruptions to our operations and negative publicity which could impact our relationship with agents, each of which could adversely affect our financial results. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial position and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions in which our services are available. these requirements, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of consumers personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data could expose us to regulatory enforcement action, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. we face credit and fraud risks from our agents and from consumers that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks are comprised of agents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we offer consumers the ability to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card through various distribution channels such as the internet or telephone. because they are not face-to-face transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of fraud. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools may not always be successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions on our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders on those channels with or without notice. for example, during 2007, we received notification from several issuing banks that credit or debit cards issued by them were blocked from transacting on westernunion.com. although these banks subsequently have allowed our consumers to use their cards again on our website, there is no certainty that these banks will not issue a similar restriction in the future, and as a result, we may continue to be impacted by notifications such as these in the future. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.3 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional substantial indebtedness in the future. 32 table of contents our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. market disruptions and other factors outside our control may make it more expensive or difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due. our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from our operations; however, we do finance a portion of our operations through short-term borrowings in the commercial paper markets. increases in interest rates and the tightening of the credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access the commercial paper markets in the future. our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. currently, each of the major credit rating agencies has given our outstanding indebtedness an investment grade rating. if our current rating is significantly downgraded, or if ratings agencies indicate that a significant downgrade may occur, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. this could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. in addition, a significant downgrade or an indication that a significant downgrade may occur also could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. as noted above, we have substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2007. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could be subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. any of these requirements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2007, we held $193.8 million in investment securities, substantially all of which are highly rated state and municipal debt instruments. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by making high quality investments. at december 31, 2007, substantially all investment securities had credit ratings of 33 table of contents aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the master trust which holds the assets of our pension plans has assets totaling approximately $400 million as of september 30, 2007, our most recent measurement date. the fair value of these assets held in the master trust are compared to the plans projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability of $27.6 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2007. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services which could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, money order issuance, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third party vendors, who would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. risks relating to the spin-off if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, our company could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to first data, us and first data stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data with respect to certain matters on which the internal revenue service did not rule. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request, including those described above, were untrue or incomplete, then first data will not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the internal revenue service did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service or the courts, and the internal revenue service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that result from a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off, as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion, under the terms of the tax allocation agreement we entered into with first data prior to the spin-off we will be 34 table of contents liable to first data for any such taxes or liabilities attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us, one of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof. in addition, we will be liable for 50% of any such taxes or liabilities (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such taxes or liabilities. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. under some circumstances, we could be prevented from engaging in strategic or capital raising transactions, and we could be liable to first data for any resulting adverse tax consequences. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions of first data stock or our stock, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition of first data stock or our stock, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. the process for determining whether a change in control prohibited under the foregoing rules has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. if a direct or indirect acquisition of first data stock or our stock resulted in a change in control prohibited under those rules, first data (but not its stockholders) would recognize taxable gain. under the tax allocation agreement, we will be liable to first data (i) for any such taxes or liabilities attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us, one of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof. in addition, we will be liable for 50% of any such taxes or liabilities (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such taxes or liabilities. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of a prohibited change in control under the rules noted above, it likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. as a result, we may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in the agent local currency. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours 70 table of contents after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short-term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to three weeks, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with terms of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions. in certain consumer money transfer transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. our policy is not to speculate in foreign currencies and we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, british pound and canadian dollar. in february 2007, we revised certain guidelines related to our longer-term foreign currency forward contracts, which we designate as hedges, to allow us to use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the risk related to forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year at any point in time. prior to revising our guidelines with respect to such longer-term foreign currency forward contracts, maturities at inception were generally one year or less. we expect that the extension of the maturity of certain of our hedges will provide additional predictability of future cash flows from our international operations and allow us to better manage and mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. prior to september 29, 2006, we did not have any derivative instruments that were designated as hedges under the provisions of sfas no. 133. as a result, changes in the fair market value of our outstanding derivative instruments, which are impacted primarily by fluctuations in the euro, have been recognized in derivative gains/(losses), net in the consolidated statement of income for all derivatives entered into prior to september 29, 2006. since these instruments were not designated to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, there was resulting volatility in our net income for the periods presented prior to september 29, 2006. for example, during the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had pre-tax derivative (losses)/gains of $(21.2) million and $45.8 million, respectively. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would result in a decrease/increase to pretax annual income of approximately $28 million based on the company forecast of unhedged 2008 exposure to foreign currency at december 31, 2007. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, the unhedged exposure is static, and that the company would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest bearing assets, with a total value at december 31, 2007 of $1.7 billion. most of this amount is sensitive to changes in interest rates, and is included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. such assets classified as cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase and are readily convertible to cash. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. substantially all of the remainder of our portfolio consists of highly rated, fixed rate municipal bonds, which may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment 71 table of contents services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair market value of these fixed rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair market values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair market value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2007, $838.2 million of our total $3,338.0 million in debt carries a floating interest rate or matures in such a short period that the financing is effectively a floating rate position. of this floating rate debt, $500.0 million bears interest based on the three month libor plus 15 basis points and is reset quarterly, and $338.2 million represents commercial paper with a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 5.5% and a weighted-average initial term of 36 days. the company reviews its overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset position in each, also considering duration of the individual positions. the company actively manages this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs, and optimize returns. portfolio exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we revised certain guidelines in february 2007 and have begun, through the use of interest rate swaps designated as hedges, to increase the percent of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. for example, during june 2007, we entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $75.0 million to manage the mix of fixed and floating rates in our debt portfolio. our weighted-average interest rate on our borrowings, including our hedges, outstanding at december 31, 2007 was approximately 5.63%. a hypothetical uniform 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease to pretax income of approximately $9.1 million annually based on borrowings on december 31, 2007 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2007 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit to pre-tax income of approximately $16.7 million annually. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. credit risk the company interest earning assets include money market fund investments, which are classified in cash and cash equivalents, and investment securities, substantially all of which are highly-rated state and municipal debt instruments, which are classified in settlement assets and accounted for as available-for-sale securities. credit risk is significantly mitigated in the money market funds by both the short duration of the funds, as well as the diversification provided by the fund format. substantially all of our investment securities are rated aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. the company is actively monitoring these positions in light of recent credit market events in the united states and abroad. given the nature of the company portfolio, we do not expect significant impacts to our portfolio. during the year ended december 31, 2007, we did not incur any impairment charges on our interest earning assets. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75risk factors 22 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry if consumers confidence in our business or in traditional money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer and payment service providers; failure of our agents or subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer data to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our security policies or legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer privacy or data use and security. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for positions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents difficult conditions in global financial markets, global economic downturns and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the global capital and credit markets have experienced in recent years, and in the future may experience, unprecedented volatility and disruption and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we aggregate our foreign exchange exposures in our business solutions business, including the exposure generated by the derivative contracts we write to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if our customers fail to honor their obligations or if the counterparties to our offsetting positions fail to honor their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 23 table of contents risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. an increasing portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues denominated in foreign currencies. our business solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. our foreign exchange risk is greater, and our foreign exchange risk management is heightened, in our business solutions business. the significant majority of business solutions revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivatives contracts is generally nine months or less. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states and much of the cash and cash equivalents from this business are held by our foreign entities. repatriating these funds to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these funds have been taxed at foreign tax rates that are relatively low compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. if repatriation of these funds is required or if a change in legislation requires a different tax treatment, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services, see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting our agents or subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service 24 table of contents operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are material to our business. interruptions in migration patterns, including as a result of economic conditions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in construction, manufacturing, hospitality, agriculture and retail, or overall weakness in the world economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our ability to compete in the markets we serve may be threatened by change, including changes in technology, changes with respect to consumer needs, competition and industry standards. we actively seek solutions that respond in a timely manner to new technology-based money transfer services such as internet, phone-based money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies, see risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; 25 table of contents integrating the acquired technologies into our company; realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; complying with regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, we had $3,198.9 million of goodwill comprising approximately 35% of our total assets. an impairment review of goodwill is conducted at least once a year (including qualitative and quantitative assessments) to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. the assessment of goodwill will be performed more frequently than once a year if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. if we are unsuccessful in integrating the businesses we have acquired or acquire in the future, or if these acquired businesses experience declines in operating income or cash flows, adverse changes in the business climate, or if we are unable to successfully execute our strategy for these businesses, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet associated with these acquisitions, which could have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. 26 table of contents in our business solutions business, we are also exposed to credit risk relating to foreign currency forward and option contracts written by us to our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us for the value of these contracts, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty. we offer consumers, primarily in the united states, the ability to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card via the internet and phone. because these are not face-to-face transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of fraud. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions, see risk factor current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents and/or employees. further, because some data is collected and stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or negligently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. interruptions in our systems or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. although we have taken steps to prevent systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system disruptions. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business 27 table of contents and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the united states, who support our systems or perform any of our major functions could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. transaction volumes at existing agent and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents and subagents provide us with additional revenue. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent or an agent dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest or changes in the economy. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. we rely on our agents information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or subagent, or if an agent or subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational harm which could result in losses to the company. we have relationships with more than 10,000 consumer payments businesses to which our customers can make payments. these relationships are a core component of our global business payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our global business payments revenue through these relationships. if we are unable to sign new relationships or maintain our current relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. if our credit ratings are downgraded, or if they are placed under review or given a negative outlook, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. in addition, an adverse credit rating by a rating agency, such as a downgrade or negative outlook, could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic and internet providers. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and global business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, automated teller machine providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional money transfer companies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, hours of operations, loyalty programs, reliability and price. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in these industries. we have made periodic pricing decreases in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. pricing decreases generally reduce margins, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted above, many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. because these entities are governmental organizations, they may be able to or be required to offer their money transfer services to the public at, near or below their cost of providing such services. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union brand, which is protected by trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, paymap, equity accelerator, just in time eft, pago f&aacute;cil, western union payments, western union quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business either do not recognize intellectual property rights or do not protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. from time to time, the united states congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. if changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2011, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits is a liability of $144.4 million, including accrued interest and penalties. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from the company tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, we recently reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and will require cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million. see item 7 of part ii, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations; capital resources and liquidity. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services which could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2011, we held $1.3 billion in investment securities, substantially all of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money transfers sent by consumers and money orders issued by us to consumers in the united states. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. as of december 31, 2011, the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 table of contents the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $301.7 million as of december 31, 2011. the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension liability of $112.7 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2011. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $3.6 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under item 1 of part i, our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions, such as the european union. regulations to which we are subject include financial services regulations, consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, money transfer, payment instrument, and foreign exchange derivative licensing regulations, unclaimed property laws, competition laws and laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity. failure by us, our agents or our subagents to comply with those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our services are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with 31 table of contents little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. failure to comply with any of these requirements by us or by our agents or their subagents (each of whom are third parties over which we have limited legal and practical control) could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the seizure and/or forfeiture of our assets and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face a higher risk associated with fcpa and united kingdom bribery act compliance than many other companies. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act ( bsa ), as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ( fincen ). we have subsidiaries that are subject to banking regulations, primarily those in brazil and austria. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york department of financial services. under the payment services directive ( psd ) in the european union ( eu ), which became effective in late 2009, and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering regulations. these laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. the remittance industry has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts are effective and comply with applicable law and best practices, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers during economically difficult times, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds or a change in laws or their interpretation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or international governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, are impacting the manner in which we operate our business and may change the competitive landscape and adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services, see risk factor the dodd-frank act, as 32 table of contents well as the regulations required by that act and the creation of the consumer financial protection bureau could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states may subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, mandate additional taxes or fees to be imposed upon consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, our business is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona. see risk factor western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. due to regulatory initiatives, we will continue to evolve our business model and practices along the united states and mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the united states. such changes will likely have an adverse effect on our revenues, profits, and business operations. in addition, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. at least two foreign countries have enacted rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax on money transfer services elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. similar circumstances in foreign countries could invoke similar consequences. a tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. for example, pakistan subsidizes certain remittances into the country from pakistanis working abroad. we do not participate in this program, but remittance companies accepting the subsidy are prohibited from charging fees to the sender or receiver. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. this includes the interpretation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the act ). similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our agents or subagents failure to comply with federal and laws and regulations as well as laws and regulations outside the united states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any determination that our agents or subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 table of contents for example, under the psd, western union is responsible for the compliance of its agents who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. the majority of our eu business is managed through our psd subsidiaries. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents in those areas has increased. we may become liable for the failure of our money transfer agents to comply with the act, the extent of which liability will be determined by rules not yet finalized. in addition, the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) created by the act has recently issued regulations implementing remittance provisions of the act, which will impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. the changes associated with the psd, the act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries could result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, or in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting our agents or subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. a material change in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services in a jurisdiction important to our business could mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and subagents, which could result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered and other negative consequences. the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, our agents in the united states are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bsa. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, some of our domestic and international agents have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks policies. if a significant number of agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for any acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents performance. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents are not exclusive, most of our western union branded agents offer our services on an exclusive basis that is, they have agreed by contract not to provide any non-western union branded money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. recently, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which 34 table of contents effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations ( ngos ) and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusivity continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. for example, we recently entered into a non-exclusive arrangement with our mexican agent, elektra del milenio de c.v. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to enforce our exclusivity rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations and revenue by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. in the second quarter of 2009, the antitrust division of the united states department of justice ( doj ) served one of our subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting documents in connection with an investigation into money transfers, including related foreign exchange rates, from the united states to the dominican republic from 2004 through the date of subpoena. the company is cooperating fully with the doj investigation. due to the stage of the investigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against us. should such charges or claims be brought, we could face significant fines, damage awards or regulatory consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. on february 11, 2010, we signed an agreement and settlement, which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of arizona and required us to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico are participating with arizona. the agreement also required us to make payments to the state of arizona for its costs associated with this matter. in addition, as part of the agreement and settlement, we have made and expect to make certain investments in and changes to our compliance programs along the united states and mexico border and a monitor has been engaged for those programs. the costs of the investments in our programs and for the monitor are expected to reach up to $23 million over the period from signing to 2013. the monitor has made a number of recommendations related to our compliance programs. we are in the process of making certain changes to our compliance program for transactions from the united states to mexico, including: revisions to agent agreements to increase our ability to oversee the compliance of our agents and subagents; reduced thresholds at which our consumers are required to provide identification for transactions from certain states along the united states southwest border; and enhancement of our information systems including migrating customer information for our western union, orlandi valuta and vigo brands onto a common database and migrating to a standard point of sale system. such changes will likely have an adverse effect on our united states to mexico business. any additional changes that we elect or are required to make in the united states to mexico corridor, or similar changes that we may elect or be required to make in other corridors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. over the past several years, we have entered into consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york department of financial services, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bsa and anti-money laundering 35 table of contents requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to pay civil penalties and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the consent agreements with the new york department of financial services and the california department of financial institutions were lifted during 2008. however, the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bsa and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, asset seizures or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. western union has received civil investigative demands from certain state attorneys general who have initiated an investigation into whether the company took adequate steps to help prevent consumer fraud from 2010 to 2011. the civil investigative demands seek information and documents relating to consumer fraud complaints that the company has received and the company procedures to help identify and prevent fraudulent transfers. due to the stage of the investigation, the company is unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with any possible civil claims that might be brought by one or more of the states. should such claims be brought, we could face significant fines, damage awards, or regulatory consequences, or compulsory changes in our business practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the creation of the consumer financial protection bureau could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the act, which became law in the united states on july 21, 2010, calls for significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to issue and enforce consumer protection initiatives governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb will create additional regulatory oversight for us. the act and actions by the cfpb could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, limiting fees we can charge for services, requiring us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, impacting the value of our assets, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. the cfpb has recently issued regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the act. these regulations, which become effective in february 2013, will impact our business in a variety of areas. these include a requirement to provide enhanced pre-transaction disclosures; an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside of a remittance provider control; and an obligation to cancel certain transactions at a consumer request. these requirements and other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. we may also be subject to examination by the cfpb, which has initiated a rulemaking process to define larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services. companies that are included in a final rule will be subject to direct supervision by the cfpb, which may involve providing reports to the cfpb and being examined by the cfpb. the scope, frequency, and details of these reports and examinations are still being developed by the cfpb. in addition, the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer financial laws. in july 2011, many consumer financial protection functions formerly assigned to the federal banking agency and other agencies were transferred to the cfpb. the cfpb has a large budget and staff, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer 36 table of contents complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. our litigation exposure may also be increased by the cfpb's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. furthermore, rules adopted under the act by governmental agencies may subject our corporate interest rate and foreign exchange hedging transactions to centralized clearing, centralized trading, collateral posting and other requirements. also, our business solutions business in the united states may be subjected to increased regulatory oversight and licensing requirements relating to the foreign exchange derivative products offered to certain of its customers. in addition, the act establishes a financial stability oversight counsel that is authorized to designate as systemically important non-bank financial companies and payment systems. companies designated under either standard will become subject to new regulation and regulatory supervision. if we were designated under either standard, the additional regulatory and supervisory requirements could result in costly new compliance burdens that could negatively impact our business. the effect of the act and the cfpb on our business and operations will be significant, in part because some of the act implementing regulations have not been issued and the function and scope of the cfpb, the reactions of our competitors and the responses of consumers and other marketplace participants are uncertain. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits were all settled in or before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made changes in our advertising and consumer forms. recent changes in law will require, and future changes in law or future litigation or regulatory action may require, that we modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services, limit the amount of our foreign exchange income and/or change our consumers behavior. in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action lawsuits, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. the company and one of its subsidiaries are defendants in two purported class action lawsuits: james p. tennille v. the western union company and robert p. smet v. the western union company, both of which are pending in the united states district court for the district of colorado. the original complaints asserted claims for violation of various consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, conversion and declaratory relief, based on allegations that the company waits too long to inform consumers if their money transfers are not redeemed by the recipients and that we use the unredeemed funds to generate income until the funds are escheated to state governments. for more information, see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii. additional civil actions or any criminal actions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. failure to comply with existing privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, 37 table of contents penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. while we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, we make information available to certain united states federal, state and local, as well as certain foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from us and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual right to privacy may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we hold property subject to unclaimed property laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see unclaimed property regulations for further discussion. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we have substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2011, which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. any change or increase in these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders ( spin-off ) through this previously owned subsidiary. 38 table of contents if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data with respect to certain matters on which the irs did not rule. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and ourselves would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ( spin-off related taxes ), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short-term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with terms of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions and intercompany loans. in certain consumer money transfer and global business payments transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the 80 table of contents difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the british pound, canadian dollar and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management due to the nature of our western union business solutions ( business solutions ) business, which includes our travelex global business payments business ( tgbp ), which was acquired in november 2011. the significant majority of this business revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivatives contracts is generally nine months or less. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. the foreign exchange risk is actively managed. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $33 million and $32 million, respectively, based on our forecast of consumer-to-consumer unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2011 of $2.7 billion. approximately $1.8 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include money market funds and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. substantially all of the remainder of our interest-bearing assets consist of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities, the majority of which are fixed-rate instruments. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheets. 81 table of contents as of december 31, 2011, we had $300.0 million of floating notes, which had an effective interest rate of 1.11% or 58 basis points above three-month libor. additionally, $500.0 million of our total $3.6 billion of fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 600 basis points above libor. borrowings under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is effectively floating rate. commercial paper borrowings of $297.0 million were outstanding as of the year ended december 31, 2011. our commercial paper borrowings as of december 31, 2011 had a weighted-average annual interest rate of approximately 0.6% and a weighted-average term of 9 days. during the year ended december 31, 2011, the average commercial paper balance outstanding was $89.7 million and the maximum balance outstanding was $784.1 million. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2011, our weighted-average effective rate was approximately 4.8%. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $11 million and $12 million annually based on borrowings on december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2011 and 2010 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit/reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $18 million and $25 million annually, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. we will also be further impacted by changes to future interest rates as we refinance our debt or by reinvesting proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investments. credit risk our interest earning assets include investment securities, substantially all of which are highly-rated state and municipal debt securities, which are classified in settlement assets and accounted for as available-for-sale securities, and money market fund investments, which are classified in cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa or better from a major credit rating agency. to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we also limit our investment level in any individual money market fund to no more than $100 million. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our internet services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses. 82 table of contents we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) receivables from certain customers for which beneficiaries are paid prior to receiving cleared funds from the customer (known as early release ). for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts is generally nine months or less. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for early release customers, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post collateral or increase collateral based on the fair value of the customer contract and their risk profile. our losses associated with bad debts have been less than 1% of our revenues in all periods presented. 83 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry if consumers' confidence in our business or in traditional money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers' confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in consumers' confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers' confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer and payment service providers, including additional customer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer data to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our security policies or legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer privacy or data use and security. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for positions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 table of contents difficult conditions in global financial markets, global economic downturns and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the global capital and credit markets have experienced in recent years, and in the future may experience, unprecedented volatility and disruption and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften compared to historical growth rates, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, or reduced global trade. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we aggregate our foreign exchange exposures in our business solutions business, including the exposure generated by the derivative contracts we write to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if our customers fail to honor their obligations or if the counterparties to our offsetting positions fail to honor their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. while the global financial and capital markets have stabilized, recent concerns regarding u.s. debt and budget matters and the sovereign debt crisis in europe have caused increased uncertainty in financial markets. a failure to raise the u.s. debt limit and/or a further downgrade of u.s. debt ratings in the future could result in credit and financial market disruptions, adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms and adversely affect our business and our financial results and condition. the impact of the sovereign debt crisis in europe on financial institutions in europe and globally could also have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally and on our business and financial results and condition. 24 table of contents we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic and internet providers. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and global business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, automated teller machine providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional money transfer companies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings, and innovation. our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in these industries. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in 2012 our consumer-to-consumer transaction volume in certain key corridors was adversely affected by increasing pricing differentials between our money transfer services and those of some of our competitors, which adversely affected our financial results. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below, many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of pricing reductions, which could adversely affect our business. we have made periodic pricing reductions from time to time in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2012 we implemented pricing reductions in certain key corridors, and we announced that we anticipated continuing these reductions and making additional pricing reductions in 2013. we have made additional pricing reductions in the first quarter of 2013, and we anticipate continuing these reductions and making additional reductions in 2013. pricing reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes which may lead to increased revenues and operating income in these certain corridors thereafter. however, the anticipated benefits of these pricing reductions may not be realized within a certain time period or at all. if we fail to realize the anticipated benefit of the pricing reductions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. our ability to respond to new and enhanced products and changing industry standards and evolving customer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. there can be no guarantee, however, that we will be successful in responding to these challenges. failure to respond well to these challenges on a timely basis could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model. 25 table of contents risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues denominated in foreign currencies. our business solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. these risks have increased in recent years as concerns rise regarding the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate more widely than in the past and could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. if there is a significant devaluation of the euro and we are unable to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into u.s. dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. similarly, the re-introduction of certain individual country currencies or the complete dissolution of the euro could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. our foreign exchange risk is greater, and our foreign exchange risk management is heightened, in our business solutions business. the significant majority of business solutions' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states and much of the cash and cash equivalents from this business are held by our foreign entities. repatriating these funds to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these funds have been taxed at foreign tax rates that are relatively low compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. if repatriation of these funds is required or if a change in legislation requires a different tax treatment, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services, see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. 26 table of contents many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank or they may require multiple service providers in their network. a government could decide to restrict remittance service to only the national post office. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are material to our business. interruptions in migration patterns, including as a result of economic conditions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in construction, manufacturing, hospitality, agriculture and retail, or overall weakness in the world's economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies, see risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; complying with regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 27 table of contents enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2012, we had $3,179.7 million of goodwill comprising approximately 34% of our total assets, including $1,947.7 million of goodwill in our consumer-to consumer reporting unit and $996.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. tgbp represents a significant majority of the goodwill related to the business solutions reporting unit. for the business solutions reporting unit, a decline in estimated fair value of approximately 10% could occur before triggering an impairment of goodwill. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. see the critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation , for more detail. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. in our business solutions business, we are also exposed to credit risk relating to foreign currency forward and option contracts written by us to our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us for the value of these contracts, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty. 28 table of contents we offer consumers, primarily in the united states, the ability to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card via the internet and phone. because these are not face-to-face transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of fraud. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions, see risk factor current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents and/or employees. further, because some data is collected and stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or negligently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. interruptions in our systems or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, from time to time, we have been the subject of cyber attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation. furthermore, disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business, although there can be no assurance that a material breach will not occur in the future. although we have taken steps to prevent systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system disruptions. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. 29 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. transaction volumes at existing agent and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents and their subagents provide us with additional revenue. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, or an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, have resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest or changes in the economy. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. we rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or their subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or their subagent, or if an agent or their subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational harm which could result in losses to the company. we have relationships with more than 15,000 consumer payments businesses to which our customers can make payments. these relationships are a core component of our global payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our consumer-to-business revenue through these relationships. if we are unable to sign new relationships or maintain our current relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. for example, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents, especially in certain inbound countries. see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements and in 2012, we entered into a non-exclusive arrangement with our mexican agent, elektra del milenio de c.v. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations, revenue, and operating profit by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. the three major rating services, standard &amp; poor's ratings services, moody's investors service inc., and fitch inc., recently reduced our credit ratings to bbb+, baa1, and bbb+, respectively, and placed us on negative outlook. if our credit ratings are further downgraded, or if they are placed under review or continue to have a negative outlook, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices. in addition, an adverse credit rating by a rating agency, such as a downgrade or negative outlook, could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 table of contents we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from productivity and cost-savings and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have and are currently engaged in actions and activities associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives or the costs to implement them are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union brand, which is protected by trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, equity accelerator, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe intellectual property rights of others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. from time to time, the united states congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. if changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 31 table of contents our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2012 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $111.9 million , including accrued interest and penalties, net of related benefits. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million , of which $92.4 million was paid in 2012 . see the capital resources and liquidity discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the irs completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data, which include our 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods, and issued its report on october 31, 2012 ( fdc 30-day letter ). furthermore, the irs completed its examination of our united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on october 31, 2012 ( wu 30-day letter ). both the fdc 30-day letter and the wu 30-day letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. we filed our protest on november 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the irs appeals division. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 10, income taxes for a further discussion of this matter. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services which could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. 32 table of contents material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2012 , we held $1.5 billion in investment securities, substantially all of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money transfers sent by consumers and money orders issued by us to consumers in the united states. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. as of december 31, 2012 , the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $316.7 million as of december 31, 2012 . the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation to determine the pension liability of $102.1 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2012 . we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately $4.0 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. 33 table of contents risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity. failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with those laws and regulations or their interpretation and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our services are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department's office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers to use our services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating profit. failure, by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control), to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with fcpa and united kingdom bribery act compliance. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended, including by the usa patriot act of 2001 (collectively, the bsa ), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ( fincen ). we have subsidiaries that are subject to banking regulations, primarily those in brazil and austria. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york department of financial services. under the payment services directive ( psd ) in the european union ( eu ), which became effective in late 2009, and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, and agent oversight and monitoring requirements, which have increased and will continue to increase our costs. these laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts are effective and comply with applicable law, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers during economically difficult times, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business and may change the competitive landscape and adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services, see risk factor the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states may subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, our business has been affected and is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona. see risk factor western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. due to regulatory initiatives, we have changed our compliance related practices and business model along the united states and mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the united states. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, and business operations related to our united states to mexico and united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors. in addition, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. at least two foreign countries have enacted rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax on money transfer services elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. similar circumstances in foreign countries could invoke similar consequences. a tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. for example, pakistan subsidizes certain remittances into the country from pakistanis working abroad. we do not participate in this program, but remittance companies accepting the subsidy are prohibited from charging fees to the sender or receiver. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. this includes the interpretation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ). similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our agents' or their subagents' failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations as well as laws and regulations outside the united states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 table of contents for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents with the psd when they are acting on behalf of one of our payments institution subsidiaries. the majority of our eu business is managed through our psd subsidiaries. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) created by the dodd-frank act is expected to issue amendments to the final regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act, which may be effective by mid-2013. the dodd-frank act will impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. the changes associated with the psd, the dodd-frank act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, or in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. a material change in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business could mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which could result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, have resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico. the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bsa. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, some of our agents and our businesses have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if a significant number of our agents or businesses are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' performance. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents are not exclusive, most of our western union branded agents offer our services on an exclusive basis - that is, they have agreed by contract not to provide any non-western union branded money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. recently, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents 36 table of contents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected above. upon implementation of the foreign account tax compliance provisions of the hiring incentives to restore employment act ( fatca ), which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to u.s. taxpayers holding non-u.s. accounts, certain of our licensed financial institutions and other entities outside the united states will be required to report to the irs, directly or through foreign government agencies cooperating with the irs, information about financial transactions made by u.s. taxpayers and could be required to impose withholding, documentation and reporting requirements on such transactions. full implementation of fatca will be phased in over a multi-year period. the additional administrative requirements of fatca will likely result in increased compliance costs and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. on february 11, 2010, we signed an agreement and settlement (filed as exhibit 10.1 to the company's current report on form 8-k filed on february 16, 2010), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of arizona and required us to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico are participating with arizona. the agreement and settlement also required us to make payments to the state of arizona for its costs associated with this matter. in addition, as part of the agreement and settlement, we have made and expect to make certain investments in and enhancements to our compliance programs along the united states and mexico border and a monitor has been engaged for those programs. on january 23, 2013, the monitor announced his intention to resign. a replacement monitor has been identified and is subject to court appointment. the costs of the investments in our programs and for the monitor pursuant to the agreement and settlement were expected to be $23 million over the period from signing through 2013; however, actual costs incurred have exceeded this amount. in addition, in the fourth quarter of 2012, our business solutions business was included in the scope of the monitor's review. including the costs required pursuant to the agreement and settlement, the company has spent over $40 million since 2010 on its compliance programs along the united states and mexico border. we are considering entering into an extension of the term of the agreement and settlement or another arrangement with the state of arizona, either of which would require the approval of the state of arizona and could have further adverse effects on our business, including additional costs. the monitor has made a number of recommendations related to our compliance programs. while the company has devoted significant time and resources to these efforts, it is expected that not every recommendation of the monitor will be fully implemented within the required timeframe ending on july 31, 2013. if the company is not able to negotiate an extension of the agreement and settlement or other arrangement and the state of arizona determines that the company has committed a willful and material breach, the state of arizona has indicated that it will pursue remedies under the agreement and settlement, which could include initiating civil or criminal actions. the pursuit by the state of arizona of remedies under the agreement and settlement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are in the process of making or have made certain changes to our compliance program for transactions from the united states to mexico and the latin america and the caribbean region, including: revisions to agent agreements to increase our ability to oversee the compliance of our agents and their subagents; reduced thresholds at which our consumers are required to provide identification for transactions from certain states along the united states southwest border; and enhancement of our information systems including migrating customer information for our orlandi valuta and vigo brands onto our western union database and migrating to a standard point of sale system. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have adverse effects on our business, primarily our united states to mexico business and our united states to latin america and the caribbean business. such adverse effects include fewer transactions and lower revenue, increased compliance costs, loss of agents, and a less desirable customer experience. any additional changes that we elect or are required to make in the united states to mexico and the united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors, or similar changes that we may elect or be required to make in other corridors or for our other services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 37 table of contents over the past several years, we have entered into consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york department of financial services, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bsa and anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to make various payments and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the consent agreements with the new york department of financial services and the california department of financial institutions were lifted during 2008. however, the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bsa and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, asset seizures or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the fourth quarter of 2011 and in the third quarter of 2012, western union received civil investigative demands from certain state attorneys general who have initiated an investigation into whether the company took adequate steps to help prevent consumer fraud from 2010 to 2011. the civil investigative demands seek information and documents relating to consumer fraud complaints that the company has received and the company's procedures to help identify and prevent fraudulent transfers. due to the stage of the investigation, the company is unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with any possible civil claims that might be brought by one or more of the states. should such claims be brought, the company could face significant fines, damage awards, or regulatory consequences, or compulsory changes in our business practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. on march 20, 2012, the company was served with a federal grand jury subpoena issued by the united states attorney's office for the central district of california ( usao ) seeking documents relating to shen zhou international ( us shen zhou ), a former western union agent located in monterey park, california. the principal of us shen zhou was indicted in 2010 and is currently awaiting trial in u.s. v. zhi he wang (sa cr 10-196, c.d. cal.). concurrent with the government's service of the subpoena, the government notified the company that it is a target of an ongoing investigation into structuring and money laundering. since march 20, 2012, the company has received additional subpoenas from the usao seeking additional documents relating to us shen zhou, materials relating to certain other former and current agents and other materials relating to the company's anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures. the government's investigation is ongoing and the company may receive additional requests for information as part of the investigation. the company continues to cooperate fully with the government. the company is unable to predict the outcome of the government's investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against the company. should such charges or claims be brought, the company could face significant fines, damage awards or regulatory consequences which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive subpoenas and other requests for documents and information from governmental authorities (federal, state and local) concerning our current or former agents, customers or other third parties. we cooperate with such subpoenas and requests in the ordinary course of our business. however, it is possible that, during the course of any investigation or review by such governmental authorities, allegations of misconduct or wrongdoing could arise regarding western union, its employees, or agents, which could lead to investigations or enforcement actions against us. the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the dodd-frank act, which became law in the united states on july 21, 2010, calls for significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to issue and enforce consumer protection initiatives governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb will create additional regulatory oversight for us. the dodd-frank act and actions by the cfpb could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, requiring us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, impacting the value of our assets, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. 38 table of contents the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act, which we anticipate may become effective in mid-2013, will impact our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of third-party fees and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation to cancel transactions that have not been completed at a consumer's request. in addition, these regulations will impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements and other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. we may also be subject to examination by the cfpb, which has initiated a rulemaking process to define larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services. companies that are included in a final rule will be subject to direct supervision by the cfpb, which may involve providing reports to the cfpb and being examined by the cfpb. the scope, frequency, and details of these reports and examinations are still being developed by the cfpb. in addition, the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer financial laws. in july 2011, many consumer financial protection functions formerly assigned to the federal banking agency and other agencies were transferred to the cfpb. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. our litigation exposure may also be increased by the cfpb's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. furthermore, rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by other governmental agencies will likely subject certain of our future corporate interest rate and foreign exchange hedging transactions to centralized clearing, margin, and other requirements. also, our business solutions business in the united states will be subjected to increased regulatory oversight and reporting requirements relating to the foreign exchange derivative products offered to certain of its customers. our implementation of these requirements could impact our business relationships with banking and other financial institution partners who offer our business solutions services. in addition, the dodd-frank act establishes a financial stability oversight counsel that is authorized to designate as systemically important non-bank financial companies and payment systems, which will become subject to new regulation and regulatory supervision. if we were designated as systemically important, the additional regulatory and supervisory requirements could result in costly new compliance burdens that could negatively impact our business. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations will be significant, in part because some of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations have not been issued and the function and scope of the cfpb, the reactions of our competitors and the responses of consumers and other marketplace participants are uncertain. in addition, the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits were all settled in or before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made changes in our advertising and consumer forms. future litigation may require that we modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services, limit the amount of our foreign exchange income and/or change our consumers' behavior. in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action lawsuits, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. 39 table of contents the company and one of its subsidiaries are defendants in two purported class action lawsuits: james p. tennille v. the western union company and robert p. smet v. the western union company, both of which are pending in the united states district court for the district of colorado. the original complaints asserted claims for violation of various consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, conversion and declaratory relief, based on allegations that the company waits too long to inform consumers if their money transfers are not redeemed by the recipients and that we use the unredeemed funds to generate income until the funds are escheated to state governments. during the fourth quarter of 2012, the parties executed a settlement agreement, which the court preliminarily approved on january 3, 2013. the settlement agreement, which is subject to the court's final approval, would result in a substantial amount of the settlement proceeds to be paid from the company's existing related unclaimed property liabilities. for more information, see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies. additional civil actions or any criminal actions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. for example, the united states federal trade commission has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. failure to comply with existing or future privacy and data use and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, we make information available to certain united states federal, state and local, as well as certain foreign government agencies when required or permitted by law. in recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from us and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. while we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see unclaimed property regulations for further discussion. 40 table of contents our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we have substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2012 , which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. for example, we have seen increased scrutiny from government regulators regarding the sufficiency of our capitalization and the appropriateness of our investments held in order to comply with state and other licensing requirements. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders ( spin-off ) through this previously owned subsidiary. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data to the irs in the private letter ruling request. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and ourselves would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data's receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. 41 table of contents with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ( spin-off related taxes ), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. 77 table of contents foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short-term foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with terms of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated cash positions. in certain consumer money transfer and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. the foreign exchange risk is actively managed. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $34 million and $33 million, respectively, based on our forecast of consumer-to-consumer unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2012 of $3.1 billion. approximately $2.1 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include money market funds and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. substantially all of the remainder of our interest-bearing assets consist of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed-rate instruments. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets. 78 table of contents as of december 31, 2012 , we had $300.0 million of floating notes, which had an effective interest rate of 0.9% or 58 basis points above three-month libor. additionally, $800.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 500 basis points above libor. borrowings under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is effectively floating rate. there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of december 31, 2012 . we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2012 , our weighted-average effective rate was approximately 4.8% . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $11 million annually based on borrowings on december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2012 and 2011 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit/reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $21 million and $18 million annually, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. we will also be further impacted by changes to future interest rates as we refinance our debt or by reinvesting proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investments. credit risk our interest earning assets include investment securities, substantially all of which are highly-rated state and municipal debt securities, which are classified in settlement assets and accounted for as available-for-sale securities, and money market fund investments, which are classified in cash and cash equivalents. as of december 31, 2012, the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we also limit our investment level in any individual money market fund to no more than $100 million. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our internet services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) receivables from certain customers for which beneficiaries are paid prior to receiving cleared funds from the customer, where we have offered trade credit. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post collateral or increase collateral based on the fair value of the customer's contract and their risk profile. our losses associated with bad debts have been less than 1% of our revenues in all periods presented. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry if consumers' confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on consumers' confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in consumers' confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect consumers' confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable for consumers to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional customer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving consumer needs and preferences, including customer preferences related to our digital services; failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data pursuant to our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona and other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our security policies or legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer privacy or data use and security. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 table of contents global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including those related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and in the future may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, or reduced global trade. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, hospitality, and construction, or overall weakness in the world's economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, " we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations ." the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we aggregate our foreign exchange exposures in our business solutions business, including the exposure generated by the derivative contracts we write to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if our customers fail to honor their obligations or if the counterparties to our offsetting positions fail to honor their obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. 24 table of contents our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic and internet providers and digital currencies. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and global business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, automated teller machine providers and operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, web-based services, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, consumer money transfer companies, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings, and innovation. distribution network and channel options, such as the electronic money transfer business, which includes online, account based, and mobile money transfer, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and global business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor " risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations , " many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of pricing reductions, which could adversely affect our business. we have made, and expect to continue to make, periodic pricing reductions from time to time in response to competition and to implement our brand investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our overall competitive positioning. pricing reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term, but are done in anticipation that they will result in increased transaction volumes which may lead to increased revenues and operating income in these certain corridors thereafter. however, the anticipated benefits of these pricing reductions may not be realized within a certain time period or at all. if we fail to realize the anticipated benefit of the pricing reductions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents our ability to adopt new technology to respond to new and enhanced products, changing industry and regulatory standards, and evolving customer needs or trends poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services and prepaid, stored-value and other card-based money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges on a timely basis could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model. risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. our business solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. for example, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. due to concerns in recent years regarding the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, the value of the euro has fluctuated more widely than in the past. if there is a significant devaluation of the euro and we are unable to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. we operate in almost all the emerging markets throughout the world. for many countries in these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we settle with our agents in either united states dollars or euros as reimbursement for the payment of these transactions. however, there are certain countries in these emerging markets where we generate transaction revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those countries is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating profits. typically, in these markets the cost of hedging activities is prohibitive. we have operations in countries where government-imposed restrictions limit the transfer of cash outside the country. in argentina, our money transfer and bill payment operations together represent less than 5% of our 2013 total consolidated revenues. however, as of december 31, 2013, approximately $100 million in cash and cash equivalents, representing several years of accumulated operating profits and excess cash flows from both businesses, continue to be held in argentina due to government imposed restrictions. changes in the official argentine peso exchange rate are immediately reflected in net income for our money transfer operations, whereas these effects are reflected in other comprehensive income for our bill payment operations. the continued devaluation of the argentine peso and limits on returning excess cash balances could further adversely affect future distributions and our results of operations. our foreign exchange risk is relatively greater, and our foreign exchange risk management is heightened, in our business solutions business. the majority of business solutions' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 26 table of contents a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states and much of the cash and cash equivalents from this business are held by our foreign entities. repatriating these funds to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these funds have been taxed at foreign tax rates that are relatively low compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the united states. if repatriation of these funds is required or if a change in legislation requires a different tax treatment, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor " changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense " below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services, see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity " below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a "post bank," which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. a government could decide to restrict remittance service to only the national post office. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are material to our business. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions, see risk factor " current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition " below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or the systems of our business partners and service providers and improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents and/or employees. further, because some data is collected and stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or inadvertently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. any breach of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. 27 table of contents interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business, although there can be no assurance that a material breach will not occur in the future. although we have taken steps to prevent systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system disruptions. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies, see "risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment" below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements; enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 , we had $3,172.0 million of goodwill comprising approximately 31% of our total assets, including $1,947.7 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $996.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. tgbp represents a significant majority of the goodwill related to the business solutions reporting unit. for the business solutions reporting unit, a decline in estimated fair value of approximately 15% could occur before triggering an impairment of goodwill. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. see the "critical accounting policies and estimates" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation , for more detail. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . the vast majority of our global funds transfer business is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. in our business solutions business, we are also exposed to credit risk relating to foreign currency forward and option contracts written by us to our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us for the value of these contracts, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty. we offer consumers, primarily in the united states, the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via the internet and phone. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 29 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected . most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. in addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, or an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico in 2012. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, or changes in the economy, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations may increase because of increased compliance efforts. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. we rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or their subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or their subagent, or if an agent or their subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. we have relationships with over 15,000 consumer payments businesses to which our customers can make payments. these relationships are a core component of our global payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our consumer-to-business revenue through these relationships. if we are unable to sign new relationships or maintain our current relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. for example, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents, especially in certain inbound countries. see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity " below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights under our contracts could adversely affect our operations, revenue, and operating profit by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. if our credit ratings are downgraded, or if they are placed under review or revised to have a negative outlook, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, an adverse credit rating by a rating agency, such as a downgrade or negative outlook, could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 table of contents we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from productivity and cost-savings and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have engaged in actions and activities associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, or the costs to implement them are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union brand, which is protected by trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, equity accelerator, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe intellectual property rights of others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense . our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. from time to time, the united states congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates or impose other obligations. if changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 31 table of contents our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2013 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $125.5 million , including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ("irs") resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million , of which $92.4 million has been paid as of december 31, 2013. see the "capital resources and liquidity" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the irs completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data, which include our 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods and issued its report on october 31, 2012 ("fdc 30-day letter"). furthermore, the irs completed its examination of our united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on october 31, 2012 ("wu 30-day letter"). both the fdc 30-day letter and the wu 30-day letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. we filed our protest on november 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the irs appeals division. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 10, "income taxes" for a further discussion of this matter. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2013 , we held $1.9 billion in investment securities, the significant majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money transfers sent by consumers and money orders issued by us to consumers in the united states. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. as of december 31, 2013 , the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of "aa-" or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 32 table of contents the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $295.8 million as of december 31, 2013 . the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation to determine the pension liability of $70.4 million recorded within "other liabilities" in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2013 . we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately $4.2 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. 33 table of contents risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our services are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department's office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating profit. for example, we anticipate significant additional investments in 2014 in our compliance programs based on the current and rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements, and we expect incremental compliance program costs as well as the potential negative business impact from new compliance procedures. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control) to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended, including by the usa patriot act of 2001 (collectively, the "bsa"), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen"). we have subsidiaries that are subject to banking regulations, primarily those in brazil and austria. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york department of financial services. under the payment services directive ("psd") in the european union ("eu"), which became effective in late 2009, and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, and agent oversight and monitoring requirements, which have increased and will continue to increase our costs. these laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. 34 table of contents the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts are effective and comply with applicable law, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents with the psd when they are acting on behalf of one of our payments institution subsidiaries. the majority of our eu business is managed through our irish psd subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the consumer financial protection bureau (the "cfpb") created by the dodd-frank act has issued amendments to the final regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act, which impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. the changes associated with the psd, the dodd-frank act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business and may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services, see risk factor " the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . " recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, our business has been affected and is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona. see risk factor " western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators ." due to regulatory initiatives, we have changed our compliance related practices and business model along the united states and mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the united states. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, and business operations related to our united states to mexico and united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors. 35 table of contents in addition, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax on money transfer services elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. similar circumstances in foreign countries could invoke similar consequences. a tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. for example, members of the canadian parliament have proposed legislation that would limit the fees and foreign exchange spreads charged by remittance companies. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. this includes the interpretation of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act"). similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity . our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our agreement and settlement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico in 2012. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents could affect their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents are considered money service businesses, or "msbs," under the bsa. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, some of our agents and our businesses have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if a significant number of our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. additionally, if we are unable to maintain our banking relationships, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 36 table of contents the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide directly the money transfer services to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' performance. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, most of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor " if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected " above. the foreign account tax compliance provisions of the hiring incentives to restore employment act ("fatca"), which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to united states taxpayers holding non-united states accounts, may require some of our business units outside the united states to report to the irs, directly or through foreign government agencies cooperating with the irs, information about financial transactions made by united states taxpayers and other specified entities or individuals, and could impose withholding, documentation and reporting requirements on such transactions. this provision may also affect withholding, documentation, and reporting requirements of certain payments made to non-united states recipients. full implementation of fatca will be phased in over a multi-year period. the additional administrative requirements of fatca may result in increased compliance costs and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the "capital resources and liquidity" section in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. 37 table of contents western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators . on february 11, 2010, western union financial services, inc. ("wufsi"), a subsidiary of the company, signed an agreement and settlement ("settlement agreement," filed as exhibit 10.1 to the company's current report on form 8-k filed on february 16, 2010), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of arizona (the "state") and required us to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico are participating with arizona. the settlement agreement also required us to make payments to the state for its costs associated with this matter. in addition, as part of the settlement agreement, we have made and expect to make certain investments in and enhancements to our compliance programs along the united states and mexico border and a monitor (the monitor ) has been engaged for those programs. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the settlement agreement. the monitor has made a number of recommendations related to our compliance programs. in addition, in the fourth quarter of 2012, our business solutions business was included in the scope of the monitor's review. on january 31, 2014, wufsi and the state agreed to amend the settlement agreement. such amendment (the amendment ) was subsequently approved by the superior court of the state of arizona in and for the county of maricopa that same day. the amendment extends the term of the settlement agreement until december 31, 2017, and imposes obligations on the company and wufsi in connection with wufsi's anti-money laundering compliance programs and cooperation with law enforcement. in particular, the amendment requires wufsi to continue implementing the primary and secondary recommendations made by the monitor appointed pursuant to the settlement agreement related to wufsi's anti-money laundering compliance program, and includes, among other things, timeframes for implementing such primary and secondary recommendations. under the amendment, the monitor may make additional primary recommendations until january 1, 2015, and additional secondary recommendations until january 31, 2017. after these dates, the monitor may only make additional primary or secondary recommendations, as applicable, that meet certain requirements as set forth in the amendment. primary recommendations may also be re-classified as secondary recommendations. the amendment provides that if wufsi is unable to implement an effective anti-money laundering compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border, as determined by the monitor and subject to limited judicial review, within the timeframes to implement the monitor's primary recommendations, the state may, within 180 days after the monitor delivers its final report on the primary recommendations on december 31, 2016, and subsequent to any judicial review of the monitor's findings, elect one, and only one, of the following remedies: (i) assert a willful and material breach of the settlement agreement and pursue remedies under the settlement agreement, which could include initiating civil or criminal actions; or (ii) require wufsi to pay (a) $50 million plus (b) $1 million per primary recommendation or group of primary recommendations that wufsi fails to implement successfully. there are currently more than 70 primary recommendations and groups of primary recommendations. if the monitor concludes that wufsi has implemented an effective anti-money laundering compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border within the timeframes to implement the monitor's primary recommendations, the state cannot pursue either of the remedies above, except that the state may require wufsi to pay $1 million per primary recommendation or group of primary recommendations that wufsi fails to implement successfully. if, at the conclusion of the timeframe to implement the secondary recommendations on december 31, 2017, the monitor concludes that wufsi has not implemented an effective anti-money laundering compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border, the state cannot assert a willful and material breach of the settlement agreement but may require wufsi to pay an additional $25 million. additionally, if the monitor determines that wufsi has implemented an effective anti-money laundering compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border but has not implemented some of the monitor's secondary recommendations or groups of secondary recommendations that were originally classified as primary recommendations or groups of primary recommendations on the date of the amendment, the state may require wufsi to pay $500,000 per such secondary recommendation or group of recommendations. there is no monetary penalty associated with secondary recommendations that are classified as such on the date of the amendment or any new secondary recommendations that the monitor makes after the date of the amendment. the amendment also requires wufsi to make a one-time payment of $250,000 and thereafter $150,000 per month for five years to fund the activities and expenses of a money transfer transaction data analysis center formed by wufsi and a financial crimes task force comprised of federal and state and local law enforcement representatives, including those from the state. in addition, the amendment requires wufsi to continue funding the monitor's reasonable expenses in $500,000 increments as requested by the monitor. 38 table of contents the changes in wufsi's anti-money laundering program required by the settlement agreement, including the amendment, and the monitor's recommendations have had, and will continue to have, adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs. additionally, if wufsi is not able to implement a successful anti-money laundering compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border or timely implement a substantial portion of the monitor's primary recommendations, each as determined by the monitor, pursuit by the state of remedies under the settlement agreement, including the amendment, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. we are in the process of making or have made certain changes to our compliance program for transactions from the united states to mexico and the latin america and the caribbean region, including: revisions to agent agreements to increase our ability to oversee the compliance of our agents and their subagents; reduced thresholds at which our consumers are required to provide identification for transactions from certain states along the united states southwest border; and enhancement of our information systems including migrating customer information for our orlandi valuta and vigo brands onto our western union database and migrating to a standard point of sale system. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have adverse effects on our business, primarily our united states to mexico business and our united states to latin america and the caribbean business. such adverse effects include fewer transactions, lower revenue, lower profits, increased compliance costs, loss of agents, reduced ability to attract or activate new agents, and a less desirable customer experience. any additional changes that we elect or are required to make in the united states to mexico and the united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors, or similar changes that we may elect or be required to make in other corridors or for our other services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. over the past several years, we have entered into consent agreements with federal and state authorities, including fincen, the new york department of financial services, the california department of financial institutions and the arizona department of financial institutions, relating to the bsa and anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer identification matters. these agreements required us to make various payments and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law. the consent agreements with the new york department of financial services and the california department of financial institutions were lifted during 2008. however, the financial services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect to the bsa and anti-money laundering compliance matters. it is possible that as a result of periodic examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency findings, fines, criminal penalties, asset seizures or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2011, 2012 and 2013, western union received civil investigative demands from certain state attorneys general who have initiated an investigation into the adequacy of the company's consumer protection efforts over the last several years. the civil investigative demands seek information and documents relating to money transfers sent from the united states to certain countries, consumer fraud complaints that the company has received and the company's procedures to help identify and prevent fraudulent transfers. due to the stage of the investigation, the company is unable to predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with any possible civil claims that might be brought by one or more of the states. should such claims be brought, the company could face significant fines, damage awards, or regulatory consequences, or compulsory changes in our business practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 table of contents on march 20, 2012, the company was served with a federal grand jury subpoena issued by the united states attorney's office for the central district of california ("usao") seeking documents relating to shen zhou international ("us shen zhou"), a former western union agent located in monterey park, california. the principal of us shen zhou was indicted in 2010 and in december 2013, pled guilty to one count of structuring international money transfers in violation of united states federal law in u.s. v. zhi he wang (sa cr 10-196, c.d. cal.). concurrent with the government's service of the subpoena, the government notified the company that it is a target of an ongoing investigation into structuring and money laundering. since march 20, 2012, the company has received additional subpoenas from the usao seeking additional documents relating to us shen zhou, materials relating to certain other former and current agents and other materials relating to the company's anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures. the government has interviewed several current and former western union employees and has served grand jury subpoenas seeking testimony from several current and former employees. the government's investigation is ongoing and the company may receive additional requests for information as part of the investigation. the company continues to cooperate fully with the government. the company is unable to predict the outcome of the government's investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against the company. should such charges or claims be brought, the company could face significant fines, damage awards or regulatory consequences which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company has had discussions with the united states federal trade commission (the "ftc") regarding the company's consumer protection and anti-fraud programs. on december 12, 2012, the company received a civil investigative demand ("cid") from the ftc requesting that the company produce (i) all documents relating to communications with the monitor appointed pursuant to the settlement agreement, including information the company provided to the monitor and any reports prepared by the monitor, and (ii) all documents relating to complaints made to the company by consumers anywhere in the world relating to fraud-induced money transfers since january 1, 2011. on april 15, 2013, the ftc filed a petition in the united states district court for the southern district of new york requesting an order to compel production of the requested documents. on june 6, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the ftc's request. on august 14, 2013, the ftc filed a notice of appeal. on august 27, 2013, western union filed a notice of cross-appeal. on february 21, 2014, the company received another cid from the ftc requesting the production of all documents relating to complaints made to the company by or on behalf of consumers relating to fraud-induced money transfers that were sent from or received in the united states since january 1, 2004, except for documents that were already produced to the ftc in response to the first cid. the company is unable to predict the outcome of this matter, or provide a range of loss, if any, which could be associated with any possible claims that might be brought against the company. on november 25, 2013, the company was served with a federal grand jury subpoena issued by the united states attorney's office for the middle district of pennsylvania ( usao-mdpa ) seeking documents relating to complaints made to the company by consumers anywhere in the world relating to fraud-induced money transfers since january 1, 2008. concurrent with the government's service of the subpoena, the government notified the company that it is the subject of the investigation. since november 25, 2013, the company has received additional subpoenas from the usao-mdpa seeking documents relating to certain western union agents and western union's agent suspension and termination policies. the government's investigation is ongoing and the company may receive additional requests for information as part of the investigation. the company is cooperating fully with the government. the company is unable to predict the outcome of the government's investigation, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against the company. should such charges or claims be brought, the company could face significant fines, damage awards or regulatory consequences which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. we regularly receive subpoenas and other requests for documents and information from governmental authorities (federal, state, local, and foreign) concerning our current or former agents, customers or other third parties. we cooperate with such subpoenas and requests in the ordinary course of our business. however, it is possible that, during the course of any investigation or review by such governmental authorities, allegations of misconduct or wrongdoing could arise regarding western union, its employees, or agents, which could lead to investigations or enforcement actions against us. 40 table of contents the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . the dodd-frank act, which became law in the united states on july 21, 2010, calls for significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to issue and enforce consumer protection initiatives governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory oversight for us. the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced pre-transaction written disclosures, including the disclosure of third-party fees and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation to cancel transactions that have not been completed at a consumer's request. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. the dodd-frank act and actions by the cfpb could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, requiring us to meet more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, impacting the value of our assets, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. we may also be subject to examination by the cfpb, which in january 2014 initiated a rulemaking process to define "larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services" to include companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. companies that are included in a final rule will be subject to direct supervision by the cfpb, which may involve providing reports to the cfpb and being examined by the cfpb. the scope, frequency, and details of these reports and examinations are still being developed by the cfpb. in addition, the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer financial laws. in july 2011, many consumer financial protection functions formerly assigned to the federal banking agency and other agencies were transferred to the cfpb. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. in april 2013, the cfpb expanded the coverage of its consumer complaints portal to permit the submission of complaints regarding money transfer issues. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. our litigation exposure may also be increased by the cfpb's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. in december 2013, the cfpb released the preliminary results of its arbitration study, which is widely viewed as the first step in an effort to restrict the use of such clauses in consumer financial contracts. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. some of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations have not been issued and the function and scope of the cfpb, the reactions of our competitors and the responses of consumers and other marketplace participants are uncertain. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. 41 table of contents rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the commodity futures trading commission, as well as by member states of the european union pursuant to emir, have subjected our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions that we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions that we may enter into in the future are subject to centralized clearing and margin requirements and certain of our other transactions may become so in the future. our implementation of these requirements has resulted in additional costs to our business and our failure to implement them correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our hedging activities, and possibly limit the types of derivative contracts we may offer as part of our business solutions segment. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. further, we may become subject to additional and potentially costly regulatory and supervisory requirements if we exceed derivative transaction thresholds set forth in dodd-frank and emir, including subjecting our foreign exchange derivative transactions to centralized clearing and margin requirements under emir. governments outside of the united states and the european union are also considering or have begun to implement regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation. western union has been the subject of class-action litigation in the united states, alleging that its foreign exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers about the revenue that western union and its agents derive from international remittances. these suits were all settled in or before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made changes in our advertising and consumer forms. future litigation may require that we modify our disclosures or our practices further. these modifications could be costly to implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our services, limit the amount of our foreign exchange income and/or change our consumers' behavior. in addition, as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future class-action lawsuits, other litigation or regulatory action alleging violations of consumer protection or other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. 42 table of contents the company and one of its subsidiaries are defendants in two purported class action lawsuits: james p. tennille v. the western union company and robert p. smet v. the western union company, both of which are pending in the united states district court for the district of colorado. the original complaints asserted claims for violation of various consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, conversion and declaratory relief, based on allegations that the company waits too long to inform consumers if their money transfers are not redeemed by the recipients and that we use the unredeemed funds to generate income until the funds are escheated to state governments. during the fourth quarter of 2012, the parties executed a settlement agreement, which the court preliminarily approved on january 3, 2013. on june 25, 2013, the court entered an order certifying the class and granting final approval to the settlement. under the approved settlement, a substantial amount of the settlement proceeds, as well as all of the class counsel's fees, administrative fees and other expenses, would be paid from the class members' unclaimed money transfer funds, which are included within "settlement obligations" in our consolidated balance sheets. during the final approval hearing, the court overruled objections to the settlement that had been filed by several class members. in july 2013, two of those class members filed notices of appeal. the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit has scheduled oral argument for march 18, 2014. the settlement requires western union to deposit the class members' unclaimed money transfer funds into a class settlement fund, from which class member claims, administrative fees and class counsel's fees, as well as other expenses will be paid. on november 6, 2013, the attorney general of california notified western union of the california controller's position that western union's deposit of the unclaimed money transfer funds into the class settlement fund pursuant to the settlement will not satisfy western union's obligations to report and remit funds under california's unclaimed property law, and that western union will remain liable to the state of california for the funds that would have escheated to california in the absence of the settlement. the state of pennsylvania and washington, d.c. have expressed similar views. there is thus reason to believe that these and potentially other jurisdictions may bring actions against the company seeking reimbursement for amounts equal to the class counsel's fees, administrative costs and other expenses that are paid from the class settlement fund. if such actions are brought or claims that may otherwise require western union to incur additional escheatment-related liabilities are asserted, western union would defend itself vigorously. for more information, see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." all of the actions described below are in a preliminary stage and the company is unable to predict the outcome, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with these actions. the company and the named individuals intend to vigorously defend themselves in all of these matters. on december 10, 2013, the city of taylor police and fire retirement system filed a purported class action complaint in the united states district court for the district of colorado against the western union company, its president and chief executive officer, and a former executive officer of the company, asserting claims under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 ( exchange act ) and securities and exchange commission rule 10b-5 against all defendants, and under section 20(a) of the exchange act against the individual defendants. plaintiff alleges that during the alleged class period, february 7, 2012 through october 30, 2012, defendants made false or misleading statements or failed to disclose adverse facts known to them, including: (1) the company was experiencing difficulties in complying with its increased duties required by the southwest border agreement and that the state of arizona was dissatisfied with the company's efforts; (2) the company was spending significantly more than forecast on its efforts to satisfy the compliance and monitoring program; (3) the company had downplayed the impact that changes in its compliance and regulatory environment were having on its operations, including its operations in mexico and latin america; (4) the scope of the monitor's review was being expanded to include western union business solutions, which would increase compliance costs; and (5) the company's ability to charge a premium for its core money transfer product was under competitive pressure, which would require drastic price reductions to stem market share losses. on january 30, 2014, another shareholder, norma a. garavaglia, filed a second purported class action complaint in the united states district court for the district of colorado that names the same defendants and contains allegations which are substantially similar to those made in the city of taylor police and fire retirement system lawsuit. 43 table of contents on january 13, 2014, natalie gordon served the company with a verified shareholder derivative complaint and jury demand that was filed in district court, douglas county, colorado naming the company's president and chief executive officer, one of its former executive officers, and all of its current directors as individual defendants and the company as a nominal defendant. the complaint asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty and gross mismanagement against all individual defendants and unjust enrichment against the president and chief executive officer and the former executive officer based on allegations that between february 12, 2012 to october 30, 2012, the individual defendants made or caused the company to issue false and misleading statements or failed to make adequate disclosures regarding the effects of the southwest border agreement, including regarding the anticipated costs of compliance with the southwest border agreement, potential effects on business operations, and company projections. plaintiff also alleges that the individual defendants caused or allowed the company to lack requisite internal controls, caused or allowed financial statements to be misstated, and caused the company to be subject to the costs, expenses and liabilities associated with the city of taylor police and fire retirement system lawsuit. plaintiff further alleges that the company's president and chief executive officer and a former executive officer received excessive compensation based on the allegedly inaccurate financial statements. on january 19, 2014, stanley leiblein filed a shareholder derivative complaint in the united states district court for the district of colorado naming the company's president and chief executive officer, one of its former executive officers, and all but one of its current directors as individual defendants and the company as a nominal defendant. the allegations and claims in this lawsuit are similar to those made in the gordon lawsuit but relate to a longer period - april 27, 2010 through october 30, 2012. the complaint asserts claims for violations of section 10(b) of the exchange act and securities and exchange commission rule 10b-5 against the company's president and chief executive officer and a former executive officer in connection with the company's repurchase of its stock at an alleged cost of $1.557 billion; for violations of section 20(a) of the exchange act and waste of corporate assets against the director defendants in connection with the company's stock repurchases; for breaches of fiduciary duty against all of the individual defendants; for unjust enrichment against all of the individual defendants relating to their receipt of compensation; and for misappropriation of information and insider trading against a former executive officer of the company. the claims are based on allegations that the individual defendants made or caused the company to issue false and misleading statements or failed to make adequate disclosures regarding, among other things, the effects of the southwest border agreement (including regarding the anticipated costs of compliance with the southwest border agreement and potential effects on business operations), company projections and trends and the adequacy of internal controls. on february 11, 2014, r. andre klein filed a shareholder derivative complaint in the united states district court for the district of colorado naming the company's president and chief executive officer, one of its former executive officers, and all but one of its current directors as individual defendants and the company as a nominal defendant. the allegations and claims in this lawsuit are similar to those made in the leiblein lawsuit and relate to the same period - april 27, 2010 through october 30, 2012. the complaint asserts claims for violations of section 10(b) of the exchange act and securities and exchange commission rule 10b-5 against the company's president and chief executive officer and a former executive officer in connection with the company's repurchase of its stock at an alleged cost of $1.557 billion; for violations of section 20(a) of the exchange act against the director defendants in connection with the company's stock repurchases; for breaches of fiduciary duty against all of the individual defendants; for unjust enrichment against all of the individual defendants relating to their receipt of compensation; for abuse of control and gross mismanagement against all of the individual defendants; and for misappropriation of information and insider trading against a former executive officer of the company. the claims are based on allegations that the individual defendants made or caused the company to issue false and misleading statements or failed to make adequate disclosures regarding, among other things, the effects of the southwest border agreement (including regarding the anticipated costs of compliance with the southwest border agreement and potential effects on business operations), company projections and trends and the adequacy of internal controls. 44 table of contents on february 20, 2014, city of cambridge retirement system filed a verified shareholder derivative complaint and jury demand in the united states district court for the district of colorado naming the company's president and chief executive officer, another current executive officer, two of its former executive officers, and all but one of its current directors as individual defendants and the company as a nominal defendant. the complaint asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty against the individual defendants, violation of section 14(a) of the exchange act against the director defendants, violation of exchange commission rule 10b-5 against the company's president and chief executive officer and a former executive officer and violation of section 20(a) of the exchange act against the director defendants and a former executive officer. the claims are based on, among other things, allegations that the director defendants affirmatively declined to stop and prevent the company's non-compliance with state and federal anti-money laundering laws and regulations after receiving red flags indicating prolonged willful illegality, reappointed the same directors to the company's audit committee between 2006 and 2014 and awarded excessive compensation packages to western union's senior executives despite the executives' responsibility for the company's non-compliance with state and federal anti-money laundering laws. the complaint also alleges that between 2009 and 2013, the director defendants caused the company to issue proxy statements that contained materially incomplete and inaccurate disclosures, including that the company's financial results depended on the non-compliance with anti-money laundering requirements; the board was aware of regulatory and criminal enforcement actions and that the directors were not curing violations; the extent to which the board considered increasing red flags in their determination to re-nominate certain directors to the audit committee; and the extent to which the board considered ongoing regulatory and criminal investigations in awarding compensation to senior executives. the complaint further alleges that the officer defendants caused the company to willfully ignore the mandatory recording and reporting requirements of the bank secrecy act and similar state laws and authorized and implemented policies and practices they knew or should have known to be inadequate for monitoring and enforcing compliance with those requirements. in addition, the complaint alleges that between april 27, 2010 and october 30, 2012, the company's president and chief executive officer and one of its former executive officers made or participated in the preparation and dissemination of materially false and misleading statements or failed to make adequate disclosures regarding, among other things, the company's cooperation with the southwest border monitor and progress in improving its anti-money laundering monitoring program, and that they profited from those statements through insider stock sales at artificially inflated stock prices and caused the company to suffer damages via the repurchase of its stock. additional civil actions or any criminal actions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . we are subject to requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. for example, the united states federal trade commission has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. failure to comply with existing or future privacy and data use and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. 45 table of contents in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. while we believe that western union is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see "unclaimed property regulations" for further discussion. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we have substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2013 , which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. for example, we have seen increased scrutiny from government regulators regarding the sufficiency of our capitalization and the appropriateness of our investments held in order to comply with state and other licensing requirements. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 46 table of contents risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders (the "spin-off") through this previously owned subsidiary. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data to the irs in the private letter ruling request. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and ourselves would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data's receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ("spin-off related taxes"), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the vast majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the canadian dollar, british pound, swiss franc, australian dollar, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. the foreign exchange risk is actively managed. 84 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our profits are generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $41 million and $34 million, respectively, based on our forecast of consumer-to-consumer unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2013 of $3.7 billion. approximately $2.8 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include money market funds and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within "cash and cash equivalents" and "settlement assets." to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as "settlement assets." earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the significant majority of the remainder of our interest-bearing assets consist of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed-rate instruments. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money transfer business and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our "total stockholders' equity" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $250.0 million of floating notes, which had an effective interest rate of 1.2% or 1% above three-month libor. additionally, $1,550.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 300 basis points above libor. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2013 , our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.6% . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $18 million and $11 million annually based on borrowings on december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2013 and 2012 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting benefit/reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $28 million and $21 million annually, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. we will also be further impacted by changes to future interest rates as we refinance our debt or by reinvesting proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investments. 85 table of contents credit risk as of december 31, 2013, the majority of our investment securities had credit ratings of "aa-" or better from a major credit rating agency. to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we also limit our investment level in any individual money market fund to no more than $100 million. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our online services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) receivables from certain customers for which beneficiaries are paid prior to receiving cleared funds from the customer, where we have offered "trade credit." for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been less than 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 86 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, or reduced global trade. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, hospitality, and construction, or overall weakness in the world's economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. our business solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. a downturn in global trade or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, as customer hedging activity in our business solutions business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, " we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations ." 23 table of contents the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. this includes the exposure generated by the business solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and internet-based services, digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include banks, credit unions, automated teller machine providers and operators, card associations, web-based services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, consumer money transfer companies, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. distribution network and channel options, such as the electronic money transfer service, which includes online, account based and mobile money transfer, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of contents our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor " risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations , " many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. if customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional customer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving consumer needs and preferences, including customer preferences related to our digital services; failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data pursuant to our settlement agreement with the state of arizona and other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities resulting in a compromise of personal data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges on a timely basis could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model or our current online money transfer model. risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. for example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. if we are unable to or elect not to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro against a significant devaluation, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating profit and net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. moreover, if we engage in foreign currency hedging activities, as it relates to our revenues, such transactions may help to mitigate the adverse financial effects of an appreciation in the united states dollar relative to other currencies. in an environment of a declining united states dollar relative to other currencies, such hedging transactions could have the effect of limiting the translation benefits on our reported financial results. in addition, our business solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. we operate in almost all emerging markets throughout the world. in many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we reimburse our agents in either united states dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. however, in certain of these emerging markets we generate revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating profits. typically, in these markets the cost of hedging activities is prohibitive. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 26 table of contents a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states. repatriating foreign earnings to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these earnings have been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rate in the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor " changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense " below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services, see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity " below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a "post bank," which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business. 27 table of contents breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions, see risk factor " current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition " below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or the systems of our business partners and service providers and improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents and/or employees. further, because some data is collected and stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or inadvertently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. any data breach resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of consumers. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business, although there can be no assurance that a material breach will not occur in the future. although we have taken steps to prevent systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system disruptions. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. 28 table of contents acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies, see "risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment" below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements; enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $3,169.2 million of goodwill comprising approximately 32% of our total assets, including $1,950.1 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $996.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. for the business solutions reporting unit, a decline in estimated fair value of approximately 15% as of the october 1, 2014 testing date could occur before triggering an impairment of goodwill. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. see the "critical accounting policies and estimates" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation , for more detail. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . the vast majority of our consumer-to-consumer money transfer and consumer-to-business activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. 29 table of contents the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have offered trade credit. we offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via the internet and phone. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected . most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our settlement agreement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico in 2012. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, or changes in the economy, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. 30 table of contents changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity " below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or their subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or their subagent, or if an agent or their subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. in our consumer-to-business segment, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, government agencies and other businesses. for example, we have relationships with over 15,000 consumer payments businesses to which our customers can make payments. these relationships are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our consumer-to-business revenue through these relationships. in business solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals, and we have relationships with more than 100,000 customers with respect to our payment solutions. increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. we have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks' policies. if we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. if our credit ratings are downgraded, or if they are placed under review or revised to have a negative outlook, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, an adverse credit rating by a rating agency, such as a downgrade or negative outlook, could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. although our credit ratings have been downgraded in the past, we still maintain an investment grade rating. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. 31 table of contents we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from productivity and cost-savings and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have engaged in actions and activities associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, or the costs to implement them are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union brand, which is protected by trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our company. the loss of the western union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name would harm our business. similar to the western union trademark, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe intellectual property rights of others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense . our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. from time to time, the united states congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates or impose other obligations. if changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 32 table of contents our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2014 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $96.8 million , including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ("irs") resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million , plus additional accrued interest, of which $94.1 million has been paid as of december 31, 2014. see the "capital resources and liquidity" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the irs completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data, which include our 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods and issued its report on october 31, 2012 ("fdc 30-day letter"). furthermore, the irs completed its examination of our united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on october 31, 2012 ("wu 30-day letter"). both the fdc 30-day letter and the wu 30-day letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. we filed our protest on november 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the irs appeals division. discussions with the irs concerning these adjustments are ongoing. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 10, "income taxes" for a further discussion of this matter. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2014 , we held $1.5 billion in investment securities, the substantial majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the united states and money transfers sent by consumers. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $302.9 million as of december 31, 2014 . the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation to determine the pension liability of $74.9 million recorded within "other liabilities" in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2014 . we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. 33 table of contents we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately $3.7 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. 34 table of contents risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department's office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating profit. for example, we made significant additional investments in 2014 in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements, and we expect additional compliance program costs in 2015 and beyond as well as potential negative business impacts from new compliance procedures. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control) to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 table of contents in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended, including by the usa patriot act of 2001 (collectively, the "bsa"), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen"). we have subsidiaries that are subject to banking regulations, namely those in brazil and austria. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york department of financial services. under the payment services directive ("psd") in the european union ("eu"), which became effective in late 2009, and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, and agent oversight and monitoring requirements, which have increased and will continue to increase our costs. these laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts comply with applicable law, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the changes associated with the psd, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents with the psd when they are acting on behalf of one of our payments institution subsidiaries. the majority of our eu activity is managed through our irish psd subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. 36 table of contents our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services, see risk factor " the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . " recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, our business has been affected and is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our settlement agreement with the state of arizona. see risk factor " western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators ." due to regulatory initiatives, we have changed our compliance related practices and business model along the united states and mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the united states. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, and business operations related to our united states to mexico and united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors. 37 table of contents in addition, one state and one united states territory have passed laws imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. similar circumstances in foreign countries have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes on money transfer services. a tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity . our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents rely on bank accounts to provide our consumer-to-consumer money transfer services. we also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. we and our agents are considered money service businesses, or "msbs," under the bsa, including our business solutions operations. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, we and some of our agents have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if we or a significant number of our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' performance. 38 table of contents although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor " if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected " above. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the "capital resources and liquidity" section in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators . state of arizona settlement agreement on february 11, 2010, western union financial services, inc. ("wufsi"), a subsidiary of the company, signed a settlement agreement ("southwest border agreement"), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of arizona (the "state") and required the company to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico are participating with arizona. as part of the southwest border agreement, the company has made and expects to make certain investments in its compliance programs along the united states and mexico border and a monitor (the "monitor") has been engaged for those programs. the company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the southwest border agreement. the monitor has made a number of recommendations related to the company's compliance programs, which we are implementing, including programs related to our business solutions segment. on january 31, 2014, the southwest border agreement was amended to extend its term until december 31, 2017 (the "amendment"). the amendment imposes additional obligations on the company and wufsi in connection with wufsi's anti-money laundering ("aml") compliance programs and cooperation with law enforcement. in particular, the amendment requires wufsi to continue implementing the primary and secondary recommendations made by the monitor appointed pursuant to the southwest border agreement related to wufsi's aml compliance program, and includes, among other things, timeframes for implementing such primary and secondary recommendations. under the amendment, the monitor could make additional primary recommendations until january 1, 2015 and may make additional secondary recommendations until january 31, 2017. after these dates, the monitor may only make additional primary or secondary recommendations, as applicable, that meet certain requirements as set forth in the amendment. the monitor has made more than 70 primary recommendations and groups of primary recommendations. primary recommendations may also be re-classified as secondary recommendations. 39 table of contents the changes in wufsi's aml program required by the southwest border agreement, including the amendment, and the monitor's recommendations have had, and will continue to have, adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs. additionally, and as described in detail in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 5 , "commitments and contingencies," if wufsi is not able to implement a successful aml compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border or timely implement the monitor's recommendations, each as determined by the monitor, the state may pursue remedies under the southwest border agreement and amendment, including assessment of fines and civil and criminal actions. such fines and actions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. other matters as further described under part i, item 3, legal proceedings , the company is the subject of ongoing investigations, including by (1) various united states attorneys' offices; (2) various state attorneys general; (3) the united states federal trade commission (the "ftc"); (4) the consumer financial protection bureau (the "cfpb"); and (5) the united states securities and exchange commission. due to the preliminary nature of these continuing investigations, the company is unable to predict their outcome, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against the company. additionally, as it has done in recent years, the company may enter into consent agreements with governmental authorities (federal, state, local, and foreign) relating to these or other regulatory matters that could require us to make various payments and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with applicable legal requirements. should governmental authorities determine to bring criminal charges or civil claims, or if the company enters into additional consent decrees with governmental authorities, the company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. further, the company regularly receives subpoenas and other requests for documents and information from governmental authorities concerning our business, current or former agents, customers or other third parties. we cooperate with such subpoenas and requests in the ordinary course of our business. however, it is possible that, during the course of any investigation or review by such governmental authorities, allegations of misconduct or wrongdoing could arise regarding western union, its employees, current or former agents, customers or other third parties, which could lead to investigations or enforcement actions against us. the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . the dodd-frank act, which became law in the united states on july 21, 2010, calls for significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to implement, examine for compliance with and enforce federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors. the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide almost all consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation to cancel transactions that have not been completed at a consumer's request. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. the dodd-frank act and interpretations and actions by the cfpb could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. 40 table of contents the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. our litigation exposure may also be increased by the cfpb's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. in december 2013, the cfpb released the preliminary results of its arbitration study, which is widely viewed as the first step in an effort to restrict the use of such clauses in consumer financial contracts. we will be subject to examination by the cfpb, which in september 2014 finalized a rule defining "larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services" as including companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. the cfpb has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the cfpb. based on examination material that has been published by the cfpb, we expect the cfpb to conduct rigorous examinations, which could result in further changes to our operating procedures. the cfpb has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. some of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations have not been issued and the function and scope of the cfpb, the reactions of our competitors and the responses of consumers and other marketplace participants are uncertain. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the commodity futures trading commission, as well as the provisions of the european market infrastructure regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the european union, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing and margin requirements and certain of our other transactions may become so in the future. our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the united states and european union are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes may result in additional costs to our business. other jurisdictions outside of the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. 41 table of contents western union is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties. as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, securities laws and other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. we may not be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. these developments in turn may result in additional litigation or other actions. for more information please see part i, item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . we are subject to requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. for example, the ftc has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. failure to comply with existing or future privacy and data use and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see "unclaimed property regulations" for further discussion. 42 table of contents our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we had substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2014 , which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. for example, we have seen increased scrutiny from government regulators regarding the sufficiency of our capitalization and the appropriateness of our investments held in order to comply with state and other licensing requirements. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43 table of contents risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders (the "spin-off") through this previously owned subsidiary. the consolidated united states federal income tax return for first data for 2006, which included the company, has been examined by the irs and no adjustments were proposed relating to the tax treatment of the spin-off. however, certain other adjustments were proposed by the irs and are being contested through the irs appeals process. accordingly, the statute of limitations covering first data's 2006 return has not yet closed. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data to the irs in the private letter ruling request. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and we would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data's receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and an opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ("spin-off related taxes"), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 44 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, swiss franc, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. we have money transfer and bill payment operations in argentina, which together represented less than 5% of our total consolidated revenues for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013. government-imposed restrictions limit the transfer of funds from those operations out of the country. as of december 31, 2014 , we held in argentina less than $65 million in cash and cash equivalents denominated in the argentine peso, a portion of which will be used to satisfy our non-settlement related argentine peso denominated liabilities. the impact of changes in the official argentine peso exchange rate is immediately reflected in net income for our money transfer operations, and this impact is reflected in other comprehensive income/(loss) for our bill payment operations. any further devaluation of the argentine peso and any additional limits on transferring funds out of argentina could further adversely affect the value of those cash and cash equivalents, our ability to distribute them, and our results of operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. 85 table of contents as of december 31, 2014 , a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $25 million, based on our forecast of consumer-to-consumer unhedged exposure to foreign currency at that date. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, that the unhedged exposure is static, and that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2014 of $3.3 billion. approximately $2.5 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within "cash and cash equivalents" and "settlement assets." to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as "settlement assets." earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the majority of the remainder of our interest-bearing assets consist of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed rate term notes. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our "total stockholders' equity" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $250.0 million of floating rate notes, which had an effective interest rate of 1.2% or 1% above three-month libor. additionally, $975.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 200 basis points above libor. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2014 , our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.4% . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $12 million and $18 million annually based on borrowings, net of the impact of hedges on december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2014 and 2013 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an annual benefit/reduction to pre-tax income of approximately $25 million and $28 million, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. we will also be further impacted by changes to future interest rates as we refinance our debt or by reinvesting proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investments. 86 table of contents credit risk to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our online services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as online services and electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been 1% or less of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 87 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, or reduced global trade. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies, including the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries ("cash management strategies"). many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, hospitality, and construction, or overall weakness in the world's economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. 23 table of contents our business solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. a downturn in global trade or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies. additionally, as customer hedging activity in our business solutions business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, " we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows ." the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. this includes the exposure generated by the business solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 24 table of contents we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and internet-based services, and from digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include consumer money transfer companies, banks, credit unions, card associations, web-based services, mobile money transfer services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, automated teller machine providers and operators, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. distribution network and channel options, such as our electronic channels, which include online, account based and mobile money transfer, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, including from new competitors and the consolidation of competitors and the expansion of their services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor " risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows , " many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. if customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies. a number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional customer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving consumer needs and preferences, including customer preferences related to our digital services, which include our westernunion.com and mobile money transfer services; 25 table of contents failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data pursuant to our settlement agreement with the state of arizona and other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities resulting in a compromise of personal data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. failure to respond well to these challenges on a timely basis could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model or our current electronic money transfer model. 26 table of contents risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. for example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. if we are unable to or elect not to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro against a significant devaluation, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating profit and net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. moreover, if we engage in foreign currency hedging activities related to our revenues, such transactions may help to mitigate the adverse financial effects of an appreciation in the united states dollar relative to other currencies. in an environment of a declining united states dollar relative to other currencies, such hedging transactions could have the effect of limiting the translation benefits on our reported financial results. in addition, our business solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to help mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. we operate in almost all developing markets throughout the world. in many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we currently reimburse most of our agents in either united states dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. however, in certain of these developing markets we generate revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating profits. typically, in these markets the cost of hedging activities is prohibitive. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. 27 table of contents a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the united states. repatriating foreign earnings to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these earnings have been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rate in the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor " changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense " below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services, see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity " below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a "post bank," which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business. 28 table of contents breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions, see risk factor " current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition " below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or the systems of our business partners and service providers and improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents, subagents, and/or employees. further, because a significant and increasing amount of our data is collected and stored by third parties, including providers of cloud-based software services, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or inadvertently disclose personal data in violation of law. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, subagents, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. additionally, transactions undertaken through our mobile services may create different risks of fraud, hacking, and other deceptive practices. any data breach resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation, damage our reputation, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of business. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business, although there can be no assurance that a material breach will not occur in the future. although we have taken steps and made investments to prevent systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience system disruptions or other problems in the future. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. 29 table of contents acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. as of december 31, 2015 , we had $3,163.8 million of goodwill comprising approximately 33% of our total assets, including $1,950.1 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $996.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. see the "critical accounting policies and estimates" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation , for more detail. in addition to the risk of goodwill impairment, the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of other risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). in addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies, see "risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment" below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements, including those particular to the industry and jurisdiction of the acquired business; enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 30 table of contents we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . the vast majority of our consumer-to-consumer money transfer and consumer-to-business activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have offered trade credit. we offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via the internet and phone. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 31 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected . most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our settlement agreement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico in 2012. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, or changes in the economy, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity " below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or their subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or their subagent, or if an agent or their subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. in our consumer-to-business segment, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, government agencies and other businesses. for example, consumers can make payments to over 15,000 businesses through our consumer-to-business services. these relationships are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our consumer-to-business revenue through these relationships. in business solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals, and we have relationships with more than 100,000 customers with respect to our payment solutions. increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. we have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks' policies. if we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 32 table of contents changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense . our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or their interpretation, both domestically and internationally. for example, the organization for economic co-operation and development ("oecd") has asked countries around the globe to act to prevent what it refers to as base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). the oecd considers beps to refer to tax planning strategies that shift, perhaps artificially, profits across borders to take advantage of differing tax laws and rates among countries. tax reforms recommended in the beps action plan include changes that would impact, among other things, global tax reporting, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, the definition of taxable permanent establishments, and other legal or financial arrangements that are viewed as causing beps. the beps action plan was finalized by the oecd on october 5, 2015 and a number of governments, including the european commission, have already enacted or proposed rules to implement, at least to some degree, changes suggested in the recommendations, while other countries are preparing to do so. any material change in tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, resulting from these or similar legislative proposals or inquiries could result in a higher effective tax rate on our earnings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2015 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $113.1 million , including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ("irs") resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million , plus additional accrued interest, of which $94.1 million has been paid as of december 31, 2015 . see the "capital resources and liquidity" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the irs completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data, which include our 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods and issued its report on october 31, 2012 ("fdc 30-day letter"). furthermore, the irs completed its examination of our united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on october 31, 2012 ("wu 30-day letter"). both the fdc 30-day letter and the wu 30-day letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. we filed our protest on november 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the irs appeals division. discussions with the irs concerning these adjustments are ongoing. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 10, "income taxes" for a further discussion of this matter. 33 table of contents our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. if our credit ratings are downgraded, or if they are placed under review or revised to have a negative outlook, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, an adverse credit rating by a rating agency, such as a downgrade or negative outlook, could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. although our credit ratings have been downgraded in the past, we still maintain an investment grade rating. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from productivity and cost-savings and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have engaged in actions and activities associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, or the costs to implement them are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union and wu brands, which are protected by trademark registrations in many countries, are material to our company. the loss of the western union or wu trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the names would harm our business. similar to the western union and wu trademarks, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition results of operations, and cash flows. 34 table of contents we own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe intellectual property rights of others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2015 , we held $1.2 billion in investment securities, the substantial majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the united states and money transfers sent by consumers. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $276.7 million as of december 31, 2015 . the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation of $346.0 million to determine the pension liability of $69.3 million recorded within "other liabilities" in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2015 . we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $3.2 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. 35 table of contents risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, or detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department's office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with or involving specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with certain individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating profit. for example, we made significant additional investments in 2015 in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control), and certain service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 36 table of contents in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended (collectively, the "bsa"), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen"). we have subsidiaries in brazil and austria that are subject to banking regulations. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york department of financial services. under the payment services directive ("psd") in the european union ("eu"), which became effective in late 2009, and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, and agent oversight and monitoring requirements, which have increased and will continue to increase our costs. these laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. while we believe our fraud prevention efforts comply with applicable law, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the changes associated with the psd, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents with the psd when they are acting on behalf of one of our payments institution subsidiaries. the majority of our eu activity is managed through our irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. 37 table of contents our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services, see risk factor " the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . " recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, our business has been affected and is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our settlement agreement with the state of arizona. see risk factor " western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators ." due to regulatory initiatives, we have changed our compliance related practices and business model along the united states and mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the united states. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, and business operations related to our united states to mexico and united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors. in addition, one state and one united states territory have passed laws imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax elsewhere in the united states, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. similar circumstances in foreign countries have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes on money transfer services. a tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 38 table of contents regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity . our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents rely on bank accounts to provide our consumer-to-consumer money transfer services. we also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. we and our agents are considered money service businesses, or "msbs," under the bsa, including our business solutions operations. an increasing number of banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. furthermore, we and some of our agents have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if we or a significant number of our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' performance. 39 table of contents although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. various jurisdictions, including the european union and some of its member countries, continue to increase their focus on agent agreements. in addition, over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor " if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected " above. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the "capital resources and liquidity" section in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. western union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators . state of arizona settlement agreement on february 11, 2010, western union financial services, inc. ("wufsi"), a subsidiary of the company, signed a settlement agreement ("southwest border agreement"), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of arizona (the "state") and required the company to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico are participating with arizona. as part of the southwest border agreement, the company has made and expects to make certain investments in its compliance programs along the united states and mexico border and a monitor (the "monitor") has been engaged for those programs. the company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the southwest border agreement. the monitor has made a number of recommendations related to the company's compliance programs, which we are implementing, including programs related to our business solutions segment. 40 table of contents on january 31, 2014, the southwest border agreement was amended to extend its term until december 31, 2017 (the "amendment"). the amendment imposes additional obligations on the company and wufsi in connection with wufsi's anti-money laundering ("aml") compliance programs and cooperation with law enforcement. in particular, the amendment requires wufsi to continue implementing the primary and secondary recommendations made by the monitor appointed pursuant to the southwest border agreement related to wufsi's aml compliance program, and includes, among other things, timeframes for implementing such primary and secondary recommendations. under the amendment, the monitor could make additional primary recommendations until january 1, 2015 and may make additional secondary recommendations until january 31, 2017. after these dates, the monitor may only make additional primary or secondary recommendations, as applicable, that meet certain requirements as set forth in the amendment. the monitor has made more than 70 primary recommendations and groups of primary recommendations. primary recommendations may also be re-classified as secondary recommendations. the changes in wufsi's aml program required by the southwest border agreement, including the amendment, and the monitor's recommendations have had, and will continue to have, adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs. additionally, and as described in detail in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 5 , "commitments and contingencies," if wufsi is not able to implement a successful aml compliance program along the u.s. and mexico border or timely implement the monitor's recommendations, each as determined by the monitor, the state may pursue remedies under the southwest border agreement and amendment, including assessment of fines and civil and criminal actions. the company submitted all of the primary recommendations to the monitor for review prior to an october 31, 2015 deadline and is currently in the process of demonstrating its compliance with the primary recommendations, but is unable to predict whether the monitor will conclude that wufsi has implemented an effective aml compliance program and whether the monitor's primary and secondary recommendations have been successfully implemented. should the state pursue remedies under the southwest border agreement, the company could face significant fines and actions which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. other matters as further described under part i, item 3, legal proceedings , the company is the subject of ongoing investigations, including by (1) various united states attorneys' offices; (2) various state attorneys general; and (3) the united states federal trade commission (the "ftc"). due to the stage and nature of these continuing investigations, the company is unable to predict their outcome, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against the company. additionally, as it has done in recent years, the company may enter into consent agreements with governmental authorities (federal, state, local, and foreign) relating to these or other regulatory matters that could require us to make various payments and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with applicable legal requirements. should governmental authorities determine to bring criminal charges or civil claims, or if the company enters into additional consent decrees with governmental authorities, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. further, the company regularly receives subpoenas and other requests for documents and information from governmental authorities concerning our business, current or former agents, customers or other third parties. we cooperate with such subpoenas and requests in the ordinary course of our business. however, it is possible that, during the course of any investigation or review by such governmental authorities, allegations of misconduct or wrongdoing could arise regarding western union, its employees, current or former agents, customers or other third parties, which could lead to investigations or enforcement actions against us. 41 table of contents the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . the dodd-frank act, which became law in the united states on july 21, 2010, calls for significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to implement, examine for compliance with and enforce federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, including for matters related to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices ("udaap"). the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide almost all consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation to cancel transactions that have not been completed at a consumer's request. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. the dodd-frank act and interpretations and actions by the cfpb could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. for example, in july 2015, paymap, inc. ("paymap"), one of our subsidiaries, and the cfpb reached a settlement agreement regarding paymap's marketing of its equity accelerator service. under the terms of the agreement, paymap agreed to pay approximately $33.4 million in restitution and a $5.0 million civil monetary penalty and agreed to ensure that its marketing practices and materials for the equity accelerator program comply with the consumer financial protection act's prohibition against udaap. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining udaap, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. our litigation exposure may also be increased by the cfpb's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. in december 2013, the cfpb released the preliminary results of its arbitration study, which is widely viewed as the first step in an effort to restrict the use of such clauses in consumer financial contracts. we have been and will continue to be subject to examination by the cfpb, which in september 2014 finalized a rule defining "larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services" as including companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. the cfpb has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the cfpb. based on examination material that has been published by the cfpb, we expect the cfpb to conduct rigorous examinations, which could result in further changes to our operating procedures. the cfpb has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. 42 table of contents rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the commodity futures trading commission, as well as the provisions of the european market infrastructure regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the european union, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing and margin requirements and certain of our other transactions may become so in the future. our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the united states and european union, such as under the dodd-frank act and the european markets in financial instruments directive known as "mifid ii," are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of forward contracts, may result in additional costs to our business. other jurisdictions outside of the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. western union is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties. as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, securities laws and other laws. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. we may not be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. these developments in turn may result in additional litigation or other actions. for more information please see part i, item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . we are subject to requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. for example, the ftc has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. for example, the european parliament and the council of the european union are expected to adopt a comprehensive general data privacy regulation ( gdpr ) in 2016 that will replace the current eu data protection directive and related country-specific legislation. the gdpr is anticipated to take effect in mid-2018. we are analyzing the gdpr to determine its potential effects on our business practices. complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the gdpr may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices. failure to comply with existing or future privacy and data use and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. 43 table of contents in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. we have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. see "unclaimed property regulations" for further discussion. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we had substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2015 , which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. for example, we have seen increased scrutiny from government regulators regarding the sufficiency of our capitalization and the appropriateness of our investments held in order to comply with state and other licensing requirements. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 44 table of contents risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders (the "spin-off") through this previously owned subsidiary. the consolidated united states federal income tax return for first data for 2006, which included the company, has been examined by the irs and no adjustments were proposed relating to the tax treatment of the spin-off. however, certain other adjustments were proposed by the irs and are being contested through the irs appeals process. accordingly, the statute of limitations covering first data's 2006 return has not yet closed. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data to the irs in the private letter ruling request. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and we would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data's receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and an opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ("spin-off related taxes"), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 45 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide consumer-to-consumer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we settle with the majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. we typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer, bill payment and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we attempt to promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to help mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on consumer-to-consumer revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, swiss franc, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international consumer-to-consumer operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. 85 table of contents as of both december 31, 2015 and 2014 , a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $25 million, respectively, based on our forecast of consumer-to-consumer unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the following assumptions: (a) that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, (b) that fixed exchange rates between certain currency pairs are retained, (c) that the unhedged exposure is static, and (d) that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2015 of $2.7 billion. approximately $1.9 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within "cash and cash equivalents" and "settlement assets." to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as "settlement assets." earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the remainder of our interest bearing assets primarily consists of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed rate term notes. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our "total stockholders' equity" on our consolidated balance sheets. $975.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 200 basis points above libor. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2015 , our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.8% . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $10 million and $12 million annually based on borrowings, net of the impact of hedges, on december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2015 and 2014 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting increase/decrease to annual pre-tax income of approximately $19 million and $25 million, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the current mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time. we will also be further impacted by changes to future interest rates as we refinance our debt or by reinvesting proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investments. 86 table of contents credit risk to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 87 table of contentsrisk factors 22 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, or reduced global trade. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, restrictions on immigration, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies, including the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries ("cash management strategies"). many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, technology, healthcare, hospitality, energy, and construction, or overall weakness in the world's economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions or immigration laws, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. 22 table of contents our business solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. a downturn in global trade or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies. additionally, as customer hedging activity in our business solutions business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor, " we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows ." the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. this includes the exposure generated by the business solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance or obtain new financing on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 23 table of contents we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and internet-based services, and from digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include consumer money transfer companies, banks, credit unions, card associations, web-based services, mobile money transfer services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, automated teller machine providers and operators, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. distribution network and channel options, such as our electronic channels, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, including from new competitors and the consolidation of competitors and the expansion of their services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor " risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows , " many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. if customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies. a number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional consumer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving customer needs and preferences, including consumer preferences related to our westernunion.com and mobile money transfer services; 24 table of contents failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection in connection with the joint settlement agreements or other matters; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data pursuant to our settlement agreement with the state of arizona and requirements under the joint settlement agreements, and other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities resulting in a compromise of personal data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. failure to respond timely and well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than our traditional cash/agent model or our current electronic money transfer model. 25 table of contents risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. for example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. if we are unable to or elect not to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro against a significant devaluation, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating income and net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. moreover, if we engage in foreign currency hedging activities related to our revenues, such transactions may help to mitigate the adverse financial effects of an appreciation in the united states dollar relative to other currencies. in an environment of a declining united states dollar relative to other currencies, such hedging transactions could have the effect of limiting the translation benefits on our reported financial results. in addition, our business solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. in order to help mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. we operate in almost all developing markets throughout the world. in many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we currently reimburse most of our agents in either united states dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. however, in certain of these developing markets we settle transactions in local currencies and generate revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating income. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside the united states. repatriating foreign earnings to the united states would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these earnings have been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rate in the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor " changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense " below. 26 table of contents money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services; see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity " below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a "post bank," which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business. breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. with our services being offered in more than 200 countries and territories, these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and many other jurisdictions; see risk factor " current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition " below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions and can have impacts on our business practices both inside and outside the jurisdiction that imposed the regulation, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. we have developed and maintain technical and operational measures designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those measures, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or the systems of our business partners and service providers and improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents, subagents, and/or employees, or that a third-party service provider could intentionally or inadvertently disclose personal data in violation of law. for example, a significant and increasing amount of our data is collected and stored by third parties, including providers of cloud-based software services. hackers accessed the system of one of our third-party providers and improperly obtained data about some of our agents and consumers. western union systems and money transfer operations were not impacted. data breaches such as these have the potential to impose material costs on the company and there can be no assurance that additional breaches will not occur in the future. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, subagents, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. it is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. additionally, transactions undertaken through our mobile services may create different risks of fraud, hacking, and other deceptive practices. any data breach resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including substantial fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation, damage our reputation, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 27 table of contents interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of business. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business. although we have taken steps and made investments to prevent security breaches and systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience material breaches, disruptions or other problems in the future. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of whom are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, merchant acquiring services, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. 28 table of contents acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $3,162.0 million of goodwill comprising approximately 34% of our total assets, including $1,950.1 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $996.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. for the business solutions reporting unit, a decline in estimated fair value of approximately 15% as of the october 1, 2016 testing date could occur before triggering an impairment of goodwill. the fair value of the business solutions reporting unit is sensitive to changes in projections for revenue growth rates and ebitda margins, as well as changes in united states and foreign income tax rates, which impact the value of our cash flow management and liquidity strategies facilitated through the business solutions reporting unit. the value derived from these strategies to optimize united states cash flow management and global liquidity by utilizing international cash balances (including balances generated by other operating segments) to initially fund global principal payouts for business solutions transactions initiated in the united states would also be available to certain market participants. if tax reform is enacted that would reduce the cost of or restrictions on repatriating funds back to the united states, the fair value of these strategies could be reduced, which could contribute, along with a reduction in other anticipated future operating cash flows, to a write down of goodwill, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see the "critical accounting policies and estimates" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation , for more detail. in addition to the risk of goodwill impairment, the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of other risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). another risk is the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance, see "risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment" below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements, including those particular to the industry and jurisdiction of the acquired business; enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 29 table of contents we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . the vast majority of our consumer-to-consumer money transfer activity and much of our consumer-to-business activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents and other parties we transact with directly, including merchant acquirers, is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents or other partners fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have offered trade credit. we offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via the internet and phone. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties increase over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we believe we have adequate liquidity to meet our business needs, service our debt obligations, pay dividends, and repurchase shares through our existing cash balances, our ability to generate cash flows through operations, our $1.65 billion revolving credit facility and our $1.5 billion commercial paper program. to help ensure availability of our worldwide cash where needed, we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies, including decisions related to the amounts, timing and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. these decisions can influence our overall tax rate and impact our total liquidity. however, our overall liquidity may be impacted by existing regulations and new proposed regulations that, if fully implemented, would require us to post collateral in connection with our derivative financial instruments used to hedge our exposures arising in connection with changes to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we are still assessing the liquidity impact of these new regulations. 30 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected . most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. for example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our settlement agreement with the state of arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our vigo and orlandi valuta brands, resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in mexico in 2012. also, under the joint settlement agreements, we are subject to heightened requirements relating to agent oversight which may result in agent attrition. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, or changes in the economy, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity " below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or their subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or their subagent, or if an agent or their subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. in our consumer-to-business segment, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers and government agencies. our relationships with these businesses and other organizations are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our consumer-to-business revenue through these relationships. in business solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. we have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks' policies. if we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. as a result of offering our services, our agents may be subject to various taxes, as governments outside the united states have viewed and may continue to view our agents' services as subject to income, withholding, and other taxes. any such taxes that are levied on our agents could make it less desirable for agents to offer our services, which could result in increased agent attrition, agents ceasing to offer some of our services, or increased costs to maintain our agent network, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. 31 table of contents changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense . our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or their interpretation, both domestically and internationally. for example, the organization for economic co-operation and development ("oecd") has asked countries around the globe to act to prevent what it refers to as base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). the oecd considers beps to refer to tax planning strategies that shift, perhaps artificially, profits across borders to take advantage of differing tax laws and rates among countries. tax reforms recommended in the beps action plan include changes that would impact, among other things, global tax reporting, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, the definition of taxable permanent establishments, and other legal or financial arrangements that are viewed as causing beps. significant components of the beps action plan were published by the oecd in october 2015 and a number of governments, including the european commission, have already enacted or proposed rules to implement, at least to some degree, changes suggested in the recommendations, while other countries are preparing to do so. in addition to beps, efforts for tax reform in the united states are intensifying, though the nature and scope of such reform, if enacted, and the potential effect on our tax position, is still unclear. among many possibilities, united states reform could include items such as a one-time tax on undistributed foreign profits of united states-based multinational companies, a lower overall united states corporate tax rate, implementation of a more territorial-style approach to taxation of non-united states profits, changes in the tax treatment of interest expense, and other significant items. as of december 31, 2016, we had outside tax basis differences, which primarily relate to accumulated foreign earnings, of approximately $6.7 billion. any material change in tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, resulting from beps, united states tax reform or other legislative proposals or inquiries could result in a higher effective tax rate on our earnings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2016 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $365.1 million , including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ("irs") resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million , plus additional accrued interest, of which $94.1 million has been paid as of december 31, 2016 . see the "contractual obligations" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the irs completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data, which include our 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods and issued its report on october 31, 2012 ("fdc 30-day letter"). furthermore, the irs completed its examination of our united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on october 31, 2012 ("wu 30-day letter"). both the fdc 30-day letter and the wu 30-day letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. we filed our protest on november 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the irs appeals division. discussions with the irs concerning these adjustments are ongoing. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 10, "income taxes" for a further discussion of this matter. 32 table of contents our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. downgrades in our credit ratings, or their review or revision to a negative outlook, such as a recent revision by one rating agency to a negative outlook, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and could damage perceptions of our financial strength, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, adverse ratings actions could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes, our revolving credit facility, and our term loan facility, and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from business transformation, productivity and cost-savings, and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have engaged, and are engaging in actions and activities, such as the wu way initiative, associated with business transformation, productivity improvement initiatives, and expense reduction measures. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion regarding the wu way initiative. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase operational effectiveness and productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from the wu way or similar initiatives, or the costs to implement them are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union and wu brands, which are protected by trademark registrations in many countries, are material to our company. the loss of the western union or wu trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the names would harm our business. similar to the western union and wu trademarks, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 33 table of contents we own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe intellectual property rights of others, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2016 , we held $1.2 billion in investment securities, the substantial majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the united states and money transfers sent by consumers. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $280.0 million as of december 31, 2016 . the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation of $306.4 million to determine the pension liability of $26.4 million recorded within "other liabilities" in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2016 . we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $2.8 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. there would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the united states to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations. 34 table of contents risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, sanctions and anti-fraud, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, or detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department's office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with or involving specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with certain individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating income. for example, we have made significant additional investments in recent years in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control), and certain service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 35 table of contents in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended (collectively, the "bsa"), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen"). we have subsidiaries in brazil and austria that are subject to banking regulations. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the new york department of financial services. under the payment services directive ("psd"), as amended by a revised payment services directive known as psd2, in the european union ("eu"), and under similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, agent oversight and monitoring requirements, and broader supervision by eu member states. these laws have increased and will continue to increase our costs and could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. for example, as further discussed in part i, item 3, legal proceedings , and part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies," we recently entered into agreements with the united states department of justice ("doj"), certain united states attorney's offices, the united states federal trade commission ("ftc"), the financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen") of the united states department of treasury and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies (the "joint settlement agreements"). the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced has had, and could in the future have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in many jurisdictions where western union is licensed to offer money transfer services, the license holder is responsible to some extent for the agent's compliance with the rules that govern the money transfer service. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents with the psd when they are acting on behalf of our irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. the majority of our eu consumer money transfer activity is managed through our irish payment institution. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by its agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") may also impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. the requirements under the psd, the dodd-frank act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased compliance costs, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. 36 table of contents western union is the subject of consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. as further described under part i, item 3, legal proceedings , the company recently entered into joint settlement agreements with the doj, certain united states attorney's offices, the ftc, fincen, and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies. under the joint settlement agreements, the company is required, among other things, to pay an aggregate amount of $586 million to the doj to be used to reimburse consumers who were the victims of third-party fraud conducted through the company's money transfer services, and retain an independent compliance auditor for three years to review and assess actions taken by the company to further enhance its oversight of agents and protection of consumers. the joint settlement agreements also require the company to adopt certain new or enhanced practices with respect to its compliance program, relating to, among other things, consumer reimbursement, agent due diligence, agent training, monitoring, reporting, and record-keeping by the company and its agents, consumer fraud disclosures, and agent suspensions and terminations. the changes in the company's compliance program required by these agreements will have adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs and potential loss of business. the company could also face actions from other regulators as a result of the joint settlement agreements. in addition, if the company fails to comply with these agreements, it could face criminal prosecution, civil litigation, significant fines, damage awards or other regulatory consequences. any or all of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. on february 11, 2010, western union financial services, inc. ("wufsi"), a subsidiary of the company, signed a settlement agreement ("southwest border agreement"), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of arizona (the "state") and required the company to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the united states and mexico border, in which california, texas and new mexico are participating with the state. as part of the southwest border agreement, the company has made and expects to make certain investments in its anti-money laundering ("aml") compliance programs along the united states and mexico border and a monitor (the "monitor") has been engaged for those programs. the company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the southwest border agreement. the monitor has made a number of primary and secondary recommendations related to wufsi's compliance programs, which wufsi has implemented or is implementing, including programs related to the company's business solutions segment. on january 31, 2014, the southwest border agreement was amended to extend its term until december 31, 2017 (the "amendment"). the amendment imposes additional obligations on the company and wufsi in connection with wufsi's aml compliance programs and cooperation with law enforcement. in particular, the amendment requires wufsi to continue implementing the primary and secondary recommendations made by the monitor, and includes, among other things, timeframes for implementing such primary and secondary recommendations. under the amendment, the monitor could make additional primary recommendations until january 1, 2015 and may make additional secondary recommendations until january 31, 2017. after these dates, the monitor may only make additional primary or secondary recommendations, as applicable, that meet certain requirements as set forth in the amendment. wufsi implemented all of the primary recommendations prior to october 31, 2015. on june 29, 2016, the monitor notified wufsi and the state that the monitor had determined that (i) wufsi had successfully implemented all of the primary recommendations, and (ii) wufsi has implemented an effective aml compliance program along the united states and mexico border. on july 27, 2016, the monitor delivered its final report for the primary recommendations period and the superior court of arizona in and for maricopa county accepted the report. accordingly, the state cannot pursue any remedies under the southwest border agreement with respect to the primary recommendations. the amendment also provides until june 30, 2017 for implementation of the secondary recommendations, and provides a deadline of december 31, 2017 for the monitor to issue a report evaluating implementation of the secondary recommendations. if the monitor concludes in that report that wufsi has not implemented an effective aml compliance program along the united states and mexico border, the state cannot assert a willful and material breach of the southwest border agreement but may require wufsi to pay $25 million (the "secondary period remedy"). there is no monetary penalty associated with secondary recommendations that were classified as such on the date of the amendment or any new secondary recommendations that the monitor makes after the date of the amendment. there are currently 15 such secondary recommendations and groups of secondary recommendations. 37 table of contents the amendment requires wufsi to continue funding the monitor's reasonable expenses in $500,000 increments as requested by the monitor. the amendment also requires wufsi to make a one-time payment of $250,000 , which was paid in march 2014, and thereafter $150,000 per month for five years to fund the activities and expenses of a money transfer transaction data analysis center formed by wufsi and a financial crimes task force comprised of federal, state and local law enforcement representatives, including those from the state. in addition, california, texas, and new mexico are participating in the money transfer transaction data analysis center. the changes in wufsi's aml compliance program required by the southwest border agreement, including the amendment, and the monitor's recommendations have had, and will continue to have, adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs. the company is unable at this stage to predict whether the monitor will conclude at the end of the timeframe for implementing the secondary recommendations that wufsi has successfully implemented the secondary recommendations and has an effective aml compliance program, and, accordingly, whether the state will pursue the secondary period remedy. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 5, "commitments and contingencies." our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services; see risk factor " the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . " recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, we recently entered into the joint settlement agreements, as further discussed in part i, item 3, legal proceedings , and part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." further, our business has been affected and is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our settlement agreement with the state of arizona. see risk factor " western union is the subject of consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. " due to regulatory initiatives, we have changed our compliance related practices and business model along the united states and mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the united states. such changes have had, and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, and business operations related to our united states to mexico and united states to latin america and the caribbean corridors. in addition, policy makers may seek heightened customer due diligence requirements on, or restrict, remittances from the united states to mexico. policy makers have also discussed potential legislation to add taxes to remittances from the united states to mexico and/or other countries. further, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. the approach of policy makers, the ongoing budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with future federal action or inaction on immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees, or other requirements or restrictions. similar circumstances in foreign countries have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes, or other requirements or restrictions, on money transfer services. a tax, fee, or other requirement or restriction exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes, fees, requirements or restrictions. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 38 table of contents regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity . our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, licensing requirements, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents rely on bank accounts to provide our consumer-to-consumer money transfer services. we also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. we and our agents are considered money service businesses, or "msbs," under the bsa, including our business solutions operations. many banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. the recent joint settlement agreements may prompt some banks to take this view regarding western union. we and some of our agents have had, and in the future may have, difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if we or a significant number of our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' performance. 39 table of contents although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. various jurisdictions, including the european union and some of its member countries, continue to increase their focus on the potential impact of agent agreements on competition. in addition, over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor " if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected " above. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the "capital resources and liquidity" section in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. 40 table of contents the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . as final rules and regulations implementing the dodd-frank act have been adopted, the new law has made and is making significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to implement, examine for compliance with and enforce federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, including for matters related to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices ("udaap"). the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide almost all consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation at a consumer's request to cancel transactions that have not been completed. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. the dodd-frank act and interpretations and actions by the cfpb could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make them less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. for example, in july 2015, paymap, inc. ("paymap"), one of our subsidiaries, and the cfpb reached a settlement agreement regarding paymap's marketing of its equity accelerator service (the "paymap settlement agreement"). under the terms of the agreement, paymap agreed to pay approximately $33.4 million in restitution and a $5.0 million civil monetary penalty and agreed to ensure that its marketing practices and materials for the equity accelerator program comply with the consumer financial protection act's prohibition against udaap. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining udaap, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. our litigation exposure may also be increased by the cfpb's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. the dodd-frank act authorized the cfpb to conduct a study on pre-dispute arbitration clauses and, based on the study, potentially limit or ban arbitration clauses. in 2015, the cfpb released its report to congress on pre-dispute arbitration as required by the dodd-frank act and also published a potential rulemaking on arbitration agreements. in may 2016, the cfpb issued its proposed arbitration rule that would (i) effectively ban consumer financial companies from using arbitration clauses to prevent class action cases and (ii) require records of all other arbitrations to be provided to the cfpb for potential publication on its website. the timing and provision of any final rule are uncertain at this time. we have been and will continue to be subject to examination by the cfpb, which in september 2014 finalized a rule defining "larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services" as including companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. the cfpb has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the cfpb. the cfpb has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. 41 table of contents rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the cftc, as well as the provisions of the european market infrastructure regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the european union, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions and foreign exchange derivatives transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing requirements, or may be subject to margin requirements in the united states and european union. other jurisdictions outside of the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above. derivatives regulations have added costs to our business and any additional requirements, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivative contracts, will result in additional costs or impact the way we conduct our hedging activities as well as impact how we conduct our business within our business solutions segment. in particular, the cftc has recently issued a proposed rule that, if adopted as proposed, would increase the likelihood that we will have to register one or more of our subsidiaries with the cftc as a swap dealer. swap dealers are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework and compliance with this framework will lead to additional costs, including costs relating to regulatory capital and margin requirements, and may impact how we conduct our hedging activities and derivatives business with customers. we are currently evaluating the impact the proposed rule, if adopted, would have on our hedging activities and operations. our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the united states and european union, such as under the dodd-frank act and the european markets in financial instruments directive known as "mifid ii," are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivative contracts, may result in additional costs to our business. other jurisdictions outside the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. western union is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions, which could result in material settlements, judgments, fines or penalties. as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, securities laws and other laws, both foreign and domestic. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. we may not be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement, any of which could occur or intensify as a result of the joint settlement agreements, are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. these developments in turn may result in additional litigation, or other actions. for more information, please see part i, item 3, legal proceedings and part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." 42 table of contents current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . we are subject to extensive requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. for example, the ftc has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. for example, in april 2016, the european parliament approved a comprehensive new general data privacy regulation ( gdpr ) that will replace the eu's 1995 data privacy directive 95/46 as of may 2018. the gdpr will impose additional obligations and risks upon our businesses, including the risk of substantially increased penalties for non-compliance. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we are analyzing the gdpr to determine its potential effects on our business practices, but we expect to incur significant expenses to meet the new obligations of the gdpr, which may require us to make significant changes to our business operations not only within the eu, but also in the united states and other countries. failure to comply with existing or future privacy and data use and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business, and reputation. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced an increasing number of data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. we have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 43 table of contents our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we had substantial indebtedness as of december 31, 2016 and expect to incur additional indebtedness in 2017, which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 44 table of contents risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders (the "spin-off") through this previously owned subsidiary. the consolidated united states federal income tax return for first data for 2006, which included the company, has been examined by the irs and no adjustments were proposed relating to the tax treatment of the spin-off. however, certain other adjustments were proposed by the irs and are being contested through the irs appeals process. accordingly, the statute of limitations covering first data's 2006 return has not yet closed. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data to the irs in the private letter ruling request. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and we would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data's receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and an opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ("spin-off related taxes"), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 45 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide our services primarily through a network of agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we currently settle with the majority of our agents in united states dollars or euros, requiring those agents to obtain local currency to pay recipients, and we generally do not rely on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer, bill payment and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate available in the wholesale foreign exchange market, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we attempt to promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to help mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar, swiss franc, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. 83 table of contents as of both december 31, 2016 and 2015 , a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $25 million, respectively, based on our forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the following assumptions: (a) that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, (b) that fixed exchange rates between certain currency pairs are retained, (c) that the unhedged exposure is static, and (d) that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. interest rates we invest in several types of interest bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2016 of $2.4 billion. approximately $1.6 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within "cash and cash equivalents" and "settlement assets." to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as "settlement assets." earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the remainder of our interest bearing assets primarily consists of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed rate term notes. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our "total stockholders' equity" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2016 , a total of $975.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 200 basis points above libor. additionally, interest on $575 million borrowed under our term loan facility is calculated using a selected libor rate plus an interest rate margin of 150 basis points, and borrowings under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is effectively floating rate. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2016 , our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.2% . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $16 million and $10 million annually based on borrowings, net of the impact of hedges, on december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2016 and 2015 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting increase/decrease to annual pre-tax income of approximately $16 million and $19 million, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time, including the impact from commercial paper borrowings that may be outstanding in future periods. we will also be further impacted by changes to future interest rates as we refinance our debt or by reinvesting proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investments. 84 table of contents credit risk to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions, particularly through our electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 85 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment; and risks related to the spin-off. you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, changes in foreign exchange rates, or reduced global trade. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, including with respect to the technology industry, changes in immigration laws, restrictions on immigration, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. the prospect of reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, construction, and hospitality, or weakness in the regional economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions or immigration laws, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. 21 table of contents our business solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. a downturn in global trade or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additionally, as customer hedging activity in our business solutions business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor " we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows ." the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. this includes the exposure generated by the business solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or finance our obligations to pay tax on certain of our previously undistributed earnings pursuant to the tax act on favorable terms, as such amounts become due or we may have to refinance or obtain new financing on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or tax obligations, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if market disruption or volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 22 table of contents we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and internet-based services, and from digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include consumer money transfer companies, banks and credit unions (including interbank partnerships), card associations, web-based services, mobile money transfer services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, automated teller machine providers and operators, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. our business, distribution network and channel options, such as our electronic channels, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, including from new competitors and the consolidation of competitors and the expansion of their services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. for example, we have experienced increased competition in money transfers sent and received within the united states, including from the creation of an interbank network that has partnerships with many large financial institutions and that does not charge a fee to send or receive money. the potential expansion of this network or other similar interbank networks could represent significant competition to us. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor " risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows , " many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. if customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. a number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional consumer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving customer needs and preferences, including consumer preferences related to our westernunion.com and mobile money transfer services; 23 table of contents failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection in connection with the joint settlement agreements, the nydfs consent order, or other matters; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data either pursuant to our agreement signed on february 11, 2010 with the state of arizona regarding our anti-money laundering ("aml") compliance programs along the united states and mexico border ("southwest border agreement") and requirements under the joint settlement agreements or other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by unauthorized entry and computer viruses, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities, or of certain of our third-party providers, resulting in a compromise of personal or other data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. failure to respond timely and well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than our traditional cash/agent model or our current electronic money transfer model. 24 table of contents risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. for example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. in an environment of a rising united states dollar relative to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating income and net monetary assets would be reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. some of these adverse financial effects may be partially mitigated by foreign currency hedging activities. in an environment of a declining united states dollar relative to the euro, some of the translation benefits on our reported financial results could be limited by the impact of foreign currency hedging activities. we operate in almost all developing markets throughout the world. in many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we currently reimburse most of our agents in either united states dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. however, in certain of these developing markets we settle transactions in local currencies and generate revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating income. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor " changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense " below. 25 table of contents money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services; see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity " below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a "post bank," which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business. breaches of our information security safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . we collect, transfer and retain consumer, business customer representative, employee, applicant, agent and other individuals' personal information as part of our business. with our services being offered in more than 200 countries and territories, these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and many other jurisdictions; see risk factor " current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition " below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions and can have impacts on our business operations, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately accessed, used or disclosed. we believe we have developed and maintain administrative, technical and physical safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. however, despite those measures, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or documents, or the systems or documents of our business partners or service providers and improperly access, obtain or disclose personal information about our consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents or others, or that a third-party service provider could intentionally or inadvertently use, disclose or make available personal information to unauthorized parties or in violation of law. for example, a significant and increasing amount of our data is collected and stored by third parties, including providers of cloud-based software services. in 2016, we determined hackers had accessed the system of one of our third-party providers and improperly obtained data about some of our agents and consumers. western union systems and money transfer operations were not impacted. security incidents such as these have the potential to impose material costs on the company and there can be no assurance that additional security incidents will not occur in the future. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. additionally, transactions undertaken through our mobile services may create risks of fraud, hacking, unauthorized access or acquisition, and other deceptive practices. any security incident resulting in a compromise of consumer, business customer representative, employee, applicant, agent, or other personal information could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual incident, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including substantial fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation, damage our reputation, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 26 table of contents interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of business. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from unauthorized entry and computer viruses, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business. although we believe we have taken steps and made investments to help prevent security incidents and systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience material security incidents, disruptions or other problems in the future. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of whom are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, merchant acquiring services, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. 27 table of contents acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $2,727.9 million of goodwill comprising approximately 30% of our total assets, including $1,981.0 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $532.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $464.0 million related to our business solutions reporting unit, as further described in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . the fair value of the business solutions reporting unit continues to be sensitive to changes in projections for revenue growth rates and ebitda margins, and, after this impairment, the carrying value and estimated fair value of the business solutions reporting unit are the same as of december 31, 2017. any further reduction in anticipated future operating cash flows in the business solutions reporting unit would likely result in another write down of goodwill, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see the "critical accounting policies and estimates" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for more detail. in addition to the risk of goodwill impairment, the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of other risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). another risk is the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance, see "risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment" below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements, including those particular to the industry and jurisdiction of the acquired business; enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 28 table of contents we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . the vast majority of our consumer-to-consumer money transfer activity and our walk-in bill payment and money order activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents and other parties we transact with directly, including merchant acquirers, is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents or other partners fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer-term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have offered trade credit. we offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via websites and mobile devices. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties increase over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. to help ensure availability of our worldwide cash where needed, we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies, including decisions related to the amounts, timing and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. these decisions can influence our overall tax rate and impact our total liquidity. however, our overall liquidity may also be impacted by regulations or their interpretations that, if fully enacted or implemented, could require us to register as a swap dealer and post collateral in connection with our derivative financial instruments used to hedge our exposures arising in connection with changes to foreign currency exchange rates. 29 table of contents if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected . most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. under the joint settlement agreements and the nydfs consent order, we are subject to heightened requirements relating to agent oversight, which may result in agent attrition, and agents may decide to leave our network due to reputational concerns related to the joint settlement agreements and the nydfs consent order. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, or changes in the economy, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. see risk factor " regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity " below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or its subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or its subagent, or if an agent or its subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over or experiences a breach of their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. in business solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. in our various bill payments services, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers and government agencies. our relationships with these businesses and other organizations are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our revenue through these relationships. increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. we have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks' policies. if we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. as a result of offering our services, our agents may be subject to various taxes, as governments outside the united states have viewed and may continue to view our agents' services as subject to income, withholding, and other taxes. any such taxes that are levied on our agents could make it less desirable for agents to offer our services, which could result in increased agent attrition, agents ceasing to offer some of our services, or increased costs to maintain our agent network, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. 30 table of contents changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense . our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or their interpretation, both domestically and internationally. for example, in december 2017, the tax act was enacted into united states law. among other things, the tax act imposes a tax on certain previously undistributed foreign earnings, establishes minimum taxes related to payments deemed to erode the united states tax base (5% in 2018, 10% from 2019 through 2025, and 12.5% in 2026 and thereafter), and retains and expands united states taxation on a broad range of foreign earnings (whether or not the earnings have been repatriated) while effectively exempting certain types of foreign earnings from united states tax. this legislation is broad and complex, and given its recent enactment, regulations or other interpretive guidance are currently limited. any change in the interpretation of the tax act or other legislative proposals or amendments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. furthermore, the effect of certain aspects of the tax act on state income tax frameworks is currently unclear, and potential changes to state income tax laws or their interpretation could further increase our income tax expense. additionally, the organization for economic co-operation and development ("oecd") has asked countries around the globe to act to prevent what it refers to as base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). the oecd considers beps to refer to tax planning strategies that shift, perhaps artificially, profits across borders to take advantage of differing tax laws and rates among countries. tax reforms recommended in the beps action plan include changes that would impact, among other things, global tax reporting, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, the definition of taxable permanent establishments, and other legal or financial arrangements that are viewed as causing beps. significant components of the beps action plan were published by the oecd in october 2015 and a number of governments, including the european commission, have already enacted or proposed rules to implement, at least to some degree, changes suggested in the recommendations, while other countries are preparing to do so. any material change in tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, resulting from beps or other legislative proposals or inquiries could result in a higher effective tax rate on our earnings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2017 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $344.0 million , including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ("irs") resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003 ("irs agreement"), which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the irs and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million , plus additional accrued interest, of which $94.1 million has been paid as of december 31, 2017 . see the "contractual obligations" discussion in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the irs completed its examination of the united states federal consolidated income tax returns of first data, which include our 2005 and pre-spin-off 2006 taxable periods and issued its report on october 31, 2012 ("fdc 30-day letter"). furthermore, the irs completed its examination of our united states federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on october 31, 2012 ("wu 30-day letter"). both the fdc 30-day letter and the wu 30-day letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. we filed our protest on november 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the irs appeals division. during the year ended december 31, 2016, the company reached an agreement in principle with the irs concerning its unagreed adjustments. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 10, "income taxes" for a further discussion of this matter. 31 table of contents our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. downgrades in our credit ratings, or their review or revision to a negative outlook, such as a recent revision by one rating agency to a negative outlook, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and could damage perceptions of our financial strength, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, adverse ratings actions could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes, our revolving credit facility, and our term loan facility, and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from business transformation, productivity and cost-savings, and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have engaged in actions and activities, such as the wu way initiative, associated with business transformation, productivity improvement initiatives, and expense reduction measures. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion regarding the wu way initiative. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase operational effectiveness and productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from the wu way or similar initiatives, or the costs to implement future initiatives are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union and wu brands, which are protected by trademark registrations in many countries, are material to our company. the loss of the western union or wu trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality of products or services associated with the names would harm our business. similar to the western union and wu trademarks, the vigo, orlandi valuta, speedpay, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, quick cash, convenience pay, western union business solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not always protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our products or services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 32 table of contents we own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology, business methods, or marketing or other materials (including elements thereof) infringe intellectual property or other third-party rights, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver or promote a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2017 , we held $1.4 billion in investment securities, the substantial majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the united states and money transfers sent by consumers. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $271.7 million as of december 31, 2017 . the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation of $286.7 million to determine the pension liability of $15.0 million recorded within "other liabilities" in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2017 . we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt and other obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $3.0 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. furthermore, the tax act imposes a tax on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings, which we have elected to pay in periodic installments over the next eight years. our indebtedness and tax obligations could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or tax obligations, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. 33 table of contents risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, sanctions and anti-fraud, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, or detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the united states treasury department's office of foreign assets control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with or involving specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with certain individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements could continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating income. for example, we have made significant additional investments in recent years in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control), and certain service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 34 table of contents in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended (collectively, the "bsa"), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen"). we have subsidiaries in brazil and austria that are subject to banking regulations. these subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the nydfs. we also operate through a small number of licensed payment institutions in the eu. under the payment services directive ("psd"), as amended by a revised payment services directive known as psd2, and the 4th anti-money laundering directive in the eu, our operating companies that are licensed in the eu have increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, agent oversight and monitoring requirements, and broader supervision by eu member states. these laws have increased and will continue to increase our costs and could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service, and legislation that has been enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions could have similar effects. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. for example, as further discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies," in early 2017, we entered into the joint settlement agreements with the united states department of justice ("doj"), certain united states attorney's offices, the ftc, the financial crimes enforcement network ("fincen") of the united states department of treasury and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies, and in early 2018, we agreed to the nydfs consent order. the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced has had, and could in the future have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in many jurisdictions where western union is licensed to offer money transfer services, the license holder is responsible for ensuring the agent's compliance with the rules that govern the money transfer service. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents when they are acting on behalf of our irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. the majority of our eu consumer money transfer activity is managed through our irish payment institution. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by our agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") may also impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. the requirements under the psd, the dodd-frank act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased compliance costs, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. on march 29, 2017 the united kingdom ( uk ) issued a formal notification of its intention to leave the eu following the result of a referendum held in the uk on june 23, 2016. the uk is expected to exit from the eu ( brexit ) on march 29, 2019. in the meantime, the uk remains a member of the eu. the uk and the eu continue to negotiate the terms of brexit and their future relationship. this negotiation is expected to continue until march 29, 2019 but could last longer. while the negotiations are ongoing and the outcomes uncertain, we intend to apply for certain additional regulatory authorizations to ensure that our operations in the uk can continue post-brexit in the event that rights to freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services on a cross-border basis within the european economic area ( eea ) or equivalent rights under eu law (together, regulatory passports ) will not be available for firms operating between the uk and the eea. any inability or delay in obtaining the relevant regulatory authorizations from applicable regulators could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, as a result of brexit, including under the terms of any new regulatory authorizations we may obtain, we could be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements in the uk (and possibly in the eea). this could make it more costly for us to provide our services. 35 table of contents western union is the subject of consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. as further described under in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, commitments and contingencies of this form 10-k, in early 2017, the company entered into joint settlement agreements with the doj, certain united states attorney's offices, the ftc, fincen, and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies. under the joint settlement agreements, the company was required, among other things, to pay an aggregate amount of $586 million to the doj to be used to reimburse consumers who were the victims of third-party fraud conducted through the company's money transfer services, and retain an independent compliance auditor for three years to review and assess actions taken by the company to further enhance its oversight of agents and protection of consumers, both of which were performed by the company during 2017. the joint settlement agreements also require the company to adopt certain new or enhanced practices with respect to its compliance program, relating to, among other things, consumer reimbursement, agent due diligence, agent training, monitoring, reporting, and record-keeping by the company and its agents, consumer fraud disclosures, and agent suspensions and terminations. the changes in the company's compliance program required by these agreements will have adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs and potential loss of business. the company could also face actions from other regulators as a result of the joint settlement agreements. for example, as further described in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, commitments and contingencies of this form 10-k, on july 28, 2017, the nydfs informed the company that the facts set forth in the deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the doj and with certain other united states attorney's offices regarding the company's anti-money laundering programs over the 2004 through 2012 period gave the nydfs a basis to take additional enforcement action. in january 2018, the company agreed to the nydfs consent order with the nydfs which required the company to pay a civil monetary penalty of $60 million to the nydfs and resolved its investigation into these matters. among other items, the nydfs consent order imposes certain non-monetary obligations, including a requirement to provide to the nydfs a remediation plan within 90 days after the date of the nydfs consent order. in addition, if the company fails to comply with the joint settlement agreements or the nydfs consent order, it could face criminal prosecution, civil litigation, significant fines, damage awards or other regulatory consequences. any or all of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services; see risk factor " the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . " recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, in early 2017, we entered into the joint settlement agreements, and in early 2018, we agreed to the nydfs consent order, as further discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." 36 table of contents in addition, policy makers may seek heightened customer due diligence requirements on, or restrict, remittances from the united states to mexico. policy makers have also discussed potential legislation to add taxes to remittances from the united states to mexico and/or other countries. further, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. the approach of policy makers, the ongoing budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with future federal action or inaction on immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees, or other requirements or restrictions. foreign countries in similar circumstances have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes, or other requirements or restrictions, on money transfer services. a tax, fee, or other requirement or restriction exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes, fees, requirements or restrictions. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they may be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees, foreign exchange spreads and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity . our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, licensing requirements, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents and their subagents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents and their subagents rely on bank accounts to provide our consumer-to-consumer money transfer services. we also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. we and our agents and their subagents are considered money service businesses, or "msbs," under the bsa, including our business solutions operations. many banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. the recent joint settlement agreements may prompt some banks to take this view regarding western union. we and some of our agents and their subagents have had, and in the future may have, difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if we or a significant number of our agents or their subagents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents and their subagents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 37 table of contents the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents and their subagents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents or their subagents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents and their subagents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents and their subagents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' or their subagents' performance. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. various jurisdictions, including the european union and some of its member countries, continue to increase their focus on the potential impact of agent agreements on competition. in addition, over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa and south asia, including india, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor " if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected " above. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the "capital resources and liquidity" section in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. 38 table of contents the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . as final rules and regulations implementing the dodd-frank act have been adopted, the law has made and is making significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to implement, examine for compliance with and enforce federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, including for matters related to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices ("udaap"). the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide almost all consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation at a consumer's request to cancel transactions that have not been completed. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. the dodd-frank act and interpretations and actions by the cfpb could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make them less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. for example, in july 2015, paymap, inc. ("paymap"), one of our subsidiaries, and the cfpb reached a settlement agreement regarding paymap's marketing of its equity accelerator service (the "paymap settlement agreement"). under the terms of the agreement, paymap agreed to pay approximately $33.4 million in restitution and a $5.0 million civil monetary penalty and agreed to ensure that its marketing practices and materials for the equity accelerator program comply with the consumer financial protection act's prohibition against udaap. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining udaap, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. we have been and will continue to be subject to examination by the cfpb, which in september 2014 finalized a rule defining "larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services" as including companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. the cfpb has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the cfpb. the cfpb has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. 39 table of contents various jurisdictions in the united states and outside the united states have consumer protection laws and regulations, and numerous agencies are tasked with enforcing those laws and regulations. consumer protection principles continue to evolve, and some countries may enact new consumer protection laws and regulations or enhance existing consumer protection laws or regulations. increasingly, agencies tasked with enforcing consumer protection laws or regulations are communicating more frequently and coordinating efforts. for instance, icpen is an organization composed of consumer protection authorities from over 60 countries that provides a forum for developing and maintaining regular contact between consumer protection agencies and focusing on consumer protection concerns. by encouraging cooperation between agencies, icpen aims to enable its members to have a greater impact with their consumer protection laws and regulations. as the scope of consumer protection laws and regulations change, we may experience increased costs to comply and other adverse effects to our business. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the cftc, as well as the provisions of the european market infrastructure regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the european union, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions and foreign exchange derivatives transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing requirements or may be subject to margin requirements in the united states and european union. other jurisdictions outside of the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above. derivatives regulations have added costs to our business and any additional requirements, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivative contracts, will result in additional costs or impact the way we conduct our hedging activities as well as impact how we conduct our business within our business solutions segment. in particular, the cftc has issued a proposed rule that, if adopted as proposed, would increase the likelihood that we will have to register one or more of our subsidiaries with the cftc as a swap dealer. swap dealers are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework and compliance with this framework will lead to additional costs, including costs relating to regulatory capital and margin requirements, and may impact how we conduct our hedging activities and derivatives business with customers. we continue to consider the impact the proposed rule, if adopted, would have on our hedging activities and operations. additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the united states and european union, such as under the dodd-frank act and mifid ii, are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivative contracts, may result in additional costs to our business. other jurisdictions outside the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. western union is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions, which could result in material settlements, judgments, fines or penalties. as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, sanctions, securities laws and other laws, both foreign and domestic. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement, any of which could occur or intensify as a result of the joint settlement agreements or the nydfs consent order, are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. these developments in turn may result in additional litigation, or other actions. for more information, please see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, "commitments and contingencies." 40 table of contents current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition . we are subject to extensive requirements relating to data privacy and security under federal, state and foreign laws. for example, the ftc continues to investigate the privacy practices of many companies and has brought numerous enforcement actions, resulting in multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. for example, in april 2016, the european parliament and the council of the european union approved the gdpr, which will replace the eu's data protection directive 95/46 as of may 2018. the gdpr will impose additional obligations and risks upon our businesses, including the risk of substantially increased penalties for non-compliance. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we are endeavoring to implement the requirements of the gdpr, and we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to meet the new obligations of the gdpr, which require us to make significant changes to our business operations. failure to comply with existing or future data privacy and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business, and reputation. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced an increasing number of data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad and some of our agents are subject to unclaimed property laws in their respective jurisdictions which require us, or our agents, to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. we have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. these laws are evolving and are frequently unclear and inconsistent among various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. currently in the united states, more than 25 states are conducting a multi-year audit of our escheatment practices through a contracted third-party auditor. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state, foreign jurisdiction, or representative thereof could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 41 table of contents our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we had substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including those related to the tax imposed on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings pursuant to the tax act, as of december 31, 2017 and expect to incur additional indebtedness in 2018, which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements or any additional requirements. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 table of contents risks relating to the spin-off we were incorporated in delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of first data on february 17, 2006. on september 29, 2006, first data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a western union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to first data shareholders (the "spin-off") through this previously owned subsidiary. the consolidated united states federal income tax return for first data for 2006, which included the company, has been examined by the irs and no adjustments were proposed relating to the tax treatment of the spin-off. however, certain other adjustments were proposed by the irs and are being contested through the irs appeals process. accordingly, the statute of limitations covering first data's 2006 return has not yet closed. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, first data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify first data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement. first data received a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to first data, us and first data stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by first data to the irs in the private letter ruling request. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then first data and we would not be able to rely on the ruling. the spin-off was conditioned upon first data's receipt of an opinion of sidley austin llp, counsel to first data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the irs did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. the opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by first data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and an opinion of tax counsel, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of first data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. first data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by first data in the contribution over first data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. if first data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the irs might seek to collect such taxes from western union. even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the internal revenue code, the spin-off may result in significant united states federal income tax liabilities to first data if 50% or more of first data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. for purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ("spin-off related taxes"), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to first data for any such spin-off related taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. in addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any spin-off related taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by first data or (ii) where we and first data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such spin-off related taxes. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. if we are required to indemnify first data for taxes incurred as a result of the spin-off being taxable to first data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 43 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide our services primarily through a network of agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we currently settle with the substantial majority of our agents in united states dollars, euros, or mexican pesos, requiring those agents to obtain local currency to pay recipients, and we generally do not rely on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer, bill payment and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate available in the wholesale foreign exchange market, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we attempt to promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to help mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar, swiss franc, and other currencies . we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international operations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. 81 table of contents as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income/(loss) is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $35 million and $25 million, respectively, based on our forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the following assumptions: (a) that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, (b) that fixed exchange rates between certain currency pairs are retained, (c) that the unhedged exposure is static, and (d) that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income/(loss). interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2017 of $2.4 billion. approximately $1.5 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within "cash and cash equivalents" and "settlement assets." to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as "settlement assets." earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the remainder of our interest-bearing assets primarily consists of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed rate term notes. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within "settlement assets" in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our "total stockholders' equity/(deficit)" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2017 , we had a total of $1.3 billion of borrowings that are subject to floating interest rates. our floating rate notes had an outstanding balance of $250.0 million as of december 31, 2017 and had an effective interest rate of 2.5% or 80 basis points above three-month libor. in addition, as of december 31, 2017 , a total of $475.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 300 basis points above libor. finally, interest on $575.0 million borrowed under our term loan facility is calculated using a selected libor rate plus an interest rate margin of 150 basis points. any borrowings under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is also effectively floating rate. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2017 , our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.5% . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $13 million and $16 million annually based on borrowings, net of the impact of hedges, on december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2017 and 2016 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting increase/decrease to annual pre-tax income of approximately $15 million and $16 million, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rate changes would be instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time, including the impact from commercial paper borrowings that may be outstanding in future periods. 82 table of contents credit risk to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions, particularly through our electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us, primarily to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 83 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; and risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, changes in foreign exchange rates, or reduced global trade, including from trade disruptions or trade restrictions. our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, restrictions on immigration, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. the prospect of reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, construction, hospitality, and technology industries, or weakness in the regional economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions or immigration laws, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. our business solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. a downturn in global trade, including as a result of increased tensions regarding trade relationships between the united states and other countries, or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additionally, as customer hedging activity in our business solutions 21 table of contents business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. this includes the exposure generated by the business solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or finance our obligations to pay tax on certain of our previously undistributed earnings pursuant to the tax act on favorable terms, as such amounts become due or we may have to refinance or obtain new financing on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or tax obligations, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if market disruption or volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and internet-based services, and from digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include consumer money transfer companies, banks and credit unions (including interbank partnerships), card associations, web-based services, mobile money transfer 22 table of contents services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, automated teller machine providers and operators, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. our business, distribution network and channel options, such as our electronic channels, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, including from new competitors and the consolidation of competitors and the expansion of their services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. for example, we have experienced increased competition in money transfers sent and received within the united states from competitors that do not charge a fee to send or receive money through bank accounts. the potential international expansion of these competitors could represent significant competition to us. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows , many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. if customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. a number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional consumer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving customer needs and preferences, including consumer preferences related to our westernunion.com and mobile money transfer services; failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection in connection with the joint settlement agreements, the nydfs consent order, or other matters; 23 table of contents actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data either pursuant to our agreement signed on february 11, 2010 with the state of arizona regarding our anti-money laundering ( aml ) compliance programs along the united states and mexico border ( southwest border agreement ) and requirements under the joint settlement agreements or other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by unauthorized entry and computer viruses, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities, or of certain of our third-party providers, resulting in a compromise of personal or other data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. failure to respond timely and well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than our traditional cash/agent model or our current electronic money transfer model. risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. for example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. in an environment of a rising united states dollar relative to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating income and net monetary assets would be reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. some of these adverse financial effects may be partially mitigated by foreign currency hedging activities. in an environment of a declining united states dollar relative to the euro, some of the translation benefits on our reported financial results could be limited by the impact of foreign currency hedging activities. we are also subject to changes in the value of other foreign currencies, including the british pound, which may experience volatility due to the united kingdom anticipated exit from the european union. we operate in almost all developing markets throughout the world. in many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we currently reimburse most of our agents in either united states dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. however, in certain of these developing markets 24 table of contents we settle transactions in local currencies and generate revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating income. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services; see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank, which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business. 25 table of contents breaches of our information security safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we collect, transfer and retain confidential and personal information about consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents and other individuals as part of our business. with our services being offered in more than 200 countries and territories, these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and many other jurisdictions; see risk factor current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions in which we operate and can have impacts on our business operations, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately accessed, used or disclosed and protect financial services providers and other regulated entities and their customers, as well as information technology systems, from cyber attacks. we believe we have developed and maintain administrative, technical and physical safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could circumvent these safeguards to improperly access our systems or documents, or the systems or documents of our business partners or service providers and improperly access, obtain, misuse or disclose sensitive business information or personal information about our consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents or others, or that a third-party service provider could experience a cybersecurity incident or intentionally or inadvertently use, disclose or make available sensitive business information or personal information to unauthorized parties or in violation of law. for example, a significant and increasing amount of our data is collected and stored by third parties, including providers of cloud-based software services. in 2016, we determined hackers had accessed the system of one of our third-party providers and improperly obtained copies of confidential data hosted on the system of one of our third-party providers. western union systems and money transfer operations were not impacted. security incidents such as these have the potential to impose material costs on the company and there can be no assurance that additional security incidents will not occur in the future. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. additionally, transactions undertaken through our websites or other electronic channels may create risks of fraud, hacking, unauthorized access or acquisition, and other deceptive practices. any security incident resulting in a compromise of sensitive business information or the personal information of consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents or other individuals, could result in material costs to us and require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual incident, expose us to regulatory enforcement actions, including substantial fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant adverse effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of business. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from unauthorized entry and computer viruses, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks. these attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company business. the safeguards we have designed to help prevent future security incidents and systems disruptions, and comply with applicable legal requirements may not be successful and we may experience material security incidents, disruptions or other problems in the future. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which could harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. these applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work 26 table of contents stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of whom are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as cloud-based software service providers, software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, merchant acquiring services, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. as of december 31, 2018, we had $2,725.0 million of goodwill comprising approximately 30% of our total assets, including $1,980.7 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $532.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $464.0 million related to our business solutions reporting unit, as further described in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . the fair value of the business solutions reporting unit continues to be sensitive to changes in projections for revenue growth rates and ebitda margins. any reduction in anticipated future operating cash flows or the occurrence of further negative factors impacting the fair value of the business solutions reporting unit could result in another write down of goodwill, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. see the critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for more detail. in addition to the risk of goodwill impairment, the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of other risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). another risk is the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance, see risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements, including those particular to the industry and jurisdiction of the acquired business; 27 table of contents enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. divestitures and contingent liabilities from divested businesses could adversely affect our business and financial results. we continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain contingent liabilities related to the divested business. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated, which could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, and some divestitures may be dilutive to earnings. there can be no assurance whether the strategic benefits and expected financial impact of the divestiture will be achieved. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the vast majority of our consumer-to-consumer money transfer activity and our walk-in bill payment and money order activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents and other parties we transact with directly, including merchant acquirers, is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents or other partners fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer-term loans to our agents. these advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud 28 table of contents or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have offered trade credit. we offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via websites and mobile devices. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties increase over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. to help ensure availability of our worldwide cash where needed, we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies, including decisions related to the amounts, timing and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. these decisions can influence our overall tax rate and impact our total liquidity. our overall liquidity may also be impacted by regulations or their interpretations that, if fully enacted or implemented, could require us to register as a swap dealer and post collateral in connection with our derivative financial instruments used to hedge our exposures arising in connection with changes to foreign currency exchange rates. if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent or its subagents unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. under the joint settlement agreements and the nydfs consent order, we are subject to heightened requirements relating to agent oversight, which may result in agent attrition, and agents may decide to leave our network due to reputational concerns related to the joint settlement agreements and the nydfs consent order. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, changes in the economy, or factors impacting our agents ability to settle with us, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts. because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our 29 table of contents business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we rely on our agents technology systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or its subagent experiences a breach of its systems, if there is a significant disruption to the technology systems of an agent or its subagent, or if an agent or its subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. in business solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. in our various bill payments services, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers and government agencies. our relationships with these businesses and other organizations are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our revenue through these relationships. increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. we have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks policies. if we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. as a result of offering our services, our agents may be subject to various taxes, as governments outside the united states have viewed and may continue to view our agents services as subject to income, withholding, and other taxes. any such taxes that are levied on our agents could make it less desirable for agents to offer our services, which could result in increased agent attrition, agents ceasing to offer some of our services, or increased costs to maintain our agent network, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or their interpretation, both domestically and internationally. for example, in december 2017, the tax act was enacted into united states law. among other things, the tax act imposes a tax on certain previously undistributed foreign earnings, establishes minimum taxes related to certain payments deemed to erode the united states tax base, and retains and expands united states taxation on a broad range of foreign earnings (whether or not the earnings have been repatriated) while effectively exempting certain types of foreign earnings from united states tax. we may be subject to additional tax on certain payments to our foreign affiliates in 2019 and thereafter under the base erosion anti-abuse tax ( beat ) provisions of the tax act, as the minimum beat rate increases from 5% in 2018 to 10% in 2019 through 2025. we have identified and are in the process of implementing structural actions which we believe will help mitigate the impact of the beat. however, if we are not successful at mitigating this impact, the beat could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the tax act is broad and complex, and any changes or clarifications in the interpretation of the tax act or other legislative proposals or amendments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. furthermore, the effect of certain aspects of the tax act on state income tax frameworks could change as states update their laws for these aspects, and potential changes to state income tax laws or their interpretation could further increase our income tax expense. additionally, the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) has asked countries around the globe to act to prevent what it refers to as base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ). the oecd considers beps to refer to tax planning strategies that shift, perhaps artificially, profits across borders to take advantage of differing tax laws and rates among countries. tax reforms recommended in the beps action plan include changes that would impact, among 30 table of contents other things, global tax reporting, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, the definition of taxable permanent establishments, and other legal or financial arrangements that are viewed as causing beps. significant components of the beps action plan were published by the oecd in october 2015 and a number of governments, including the european commission, have already enacted or proposed rules to implement, at least to some degree, changes suggested in the recommendations, while other countries are preparing to do so. any material change in tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, resulting from beps or other legislative proposals or inquiries could result in a higher effective tax rate on our earnings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2018, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $306.8 million, including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the company tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. for example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003 ( irs agreement ), which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we made cash payments under the irs agreement of approximately $120 million, including accrued interest and net of related tax benefits. our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. downgrades in our credit ratings, or their review or revision to a negative outlook, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and could damage perceptions of our financial strength, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, adverse ratings actions could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes, our revolving credit facility, and our term loan facility, and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from business transformation, productivity and cost-savings, and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we have engaged in actions and activities, such as the wu way initiative, associated with business transformation, productivity improvement initiatives, and expense reduction measures. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion regarding the wu way initiative. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase operational effectiveness and productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from the wu way or similar initiatives, or the costs to implement future initiatives are greater than expected, or if the 31 table of contents actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union and wu brands, which are protected by trademark registrations in many countries, are material to our company. the loss of the western union or wu trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality of products or services associated with the names would harm our business. similar to the western union and wu trademarks, the orlandi valuta, vigo, western union business solutions, speedpay, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, pay@wu, quick cash, convenience pay, and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not always protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our products or services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology, business methods, or marketing or other materials (including elements thereof) infringe intellectual property or other third-party rights, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver or promote a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2018, we held $1.3 billion in investment securities, the significant majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the united states and money transfers sent by consumers. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $234.8 million as of december 31, 2018. the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation of $250.8 million to determine the pension liability of $16.0 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2018. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, 32 table of contents including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt and other obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately $3.4 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. furthermore, the tax act imposes a tax on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings, which we have elected to pay in periodic installments through 2025. our indebtedness and tax obligations could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or tax obligations, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom ( uk ), which regulates libor, publicly announced that it will no longer compel or persuade banks to make libor submissions after 2021. this announcement is expected to effectively end libor rates beginning in 2022, and while other alternatives, such as the secured overnight financing rate, have been proposed, it is unclear which, if any, alternative to libor will be available and widely accepted in major financial markets. we currently have borrowings that are subject to libor-based interest rates, including floating rate notes and borrowings under our term loan facility. we also utilize interest rate swaps to vary the percentage of fixed to floating rate debt, subject to market conditions, and may continue to do so in the future. if an alternative to libor is not available and widely accepted after 2021, our ability to borrow at variable interest rates may be adversely impacted, as the costs associated with any potential future borrowings or interest rate swaps requiring us to pay floating interest rates may increase. risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, sanctions and anti-fraud, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. 33 table of contents our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, or detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice, and these requirements or their interpretation in one jurisdiction may conflict with those of another jurisdiction. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements could continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating income. for example, we have made significant additional investments in recent years in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control), and certain service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the united kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bank secrecy act, as amended (collectively, the bsa ), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ( fincen ). we have subsidiaries in brazil and austria that are subject to banking regulations. our austrian banking subsidiary is also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the nydfs. we also operate through a small number of licensed payment institutions in the eu. under the payment services directive ( psd ), as amended by a revised payment services directive known as psd2, and the 4th and 5th anti-money laundering directive in the eu, our operating companies that are licensed in the eu have increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, agent oversight and monitoring requirements, as well as broader supervision by eu member states. additionally, the financial penalties associated with the failure to comply with anti-money laundering laws have increased in recent regulation, including the 4 th anti-money laundering directive in the eu. these laws have increased and will continue to increase our costs and could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service, and legislation that has been enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions could have similar effects. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. for example, as further discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies, in early 2017, we entered into the joint settlement agreements with the united states department of justice ( doj ), certain united states attorney offices, the ftc, the financial crimes enforcement network ( fincen ) of the united states department of treasury and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective 34 table of contents investigations of those agencies, and in early 2018, we agreed to the nydfs consent order. the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced has had, and could in the future have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in many jurisdictions where western union is licensed to offer money transfer services, the license holder is responsible for ensuring the agent compliance with the rules that govern the money transfer service. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents when they are acting on behalf of our irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. the majority of our eu consumer money transfer activity is managed through our irish payment institution. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by our agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) may also impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. the requirements under the psd, the dodd-frank act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased compliance costs, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. on march 29, 2017 the uk issued a formal notification of its intention to leave the eu following the result of a referendum held in the uk on june 23, 2016. the uk is expected to exit from the eu ( brexit ) on march 29, 2019. the parties continue to negotiate the terms of their future relationship. while the negotiations are ongoing and the outcomes uncertain, we have applied for certain additional regulatory authorizations to ensure that our operations continue in the uk, including ensuring that our uk operations will benefit from any temporary transitional arrangements agreed between the eu and uk or put in place by the uk government. while this should mitigate any material adverse impacts on our uk business operations, we expect additional administrative burden related to the transition that could adversely affect our results of operations. further, as a result of brexit, including under the terms of any new regulatory authorizations we may obtain, we could be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements in the uk as a result of divergence from established eu regulation. this could make it more costly for us to provide our services. western union is the subject of consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. as further described under in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies of this form 10 k, in early 2017, the company entered into joint settlement agreements with the doj, certain united states attorney offices, the ftc, fincen, and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies. under the joint settlement agreements, the company was required, among other things, to pay an aggregate amount of $586 million to the doj to be used to reimburse consumers who were the victims of third-party fraud conducted through the company money transfer services, and retain an independent compliance auditor for three years to review and assess actions taken by the company to further enhance its oversight of agents and protection of consumers, both of which were performed by the company during 2017. the joint settlement agreements also require the company to adopt certain new or enhanced practices with respect to its compliance program, relating to, among other things, consumer reimbursement, agent due diligence, agent training, monitoring, reporting, and record-keeping by the company and its agents, consumer fraud disclosures, and agent suspensions and terminations. the changes in the company compliance program required by these agreements will have adverse effects on the company business, including additional costs and potential loss of business. the company could also face actions from other regulators as a result of the joint settlement agreements. for example, as further described in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies of this form 10 k, on july 28, 2017, the 35 table of contents nydfs informed the company that the facts set forth in the deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the doj and with certain other united states attorney offices regarding the company anti-money laundering programs over the 2004 through 2012 period gave the nydfs a basis to take additional enforcement action. in january 2018, the company agreed to the nydfs consent order with the nydfs which required the company to pay a civil monetary penalty of $60 million to the nydfs and resolved its investigation into these matters. among other items, the nydfs consent order imposes certain non-monetary obligations, including a requirement to provide to the nydfs a remediation plan within 90 days after the date of the nydfs consent order, which the company provided on april 4, 2018. in addition, if the company fails to comply with the joint settlement agreements or the nydfs consent order, it could face criminal prosecution, civil litigation, significant fines, damage awards or other regulatory consequences. any or all of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services; see risk factor the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, in early 2017, we entered into the joint settlement agreements, and in early 2018, we agreed to the nydfs consent order, as further discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies. in addition, u.s. policy makers may seek heightened customer due diligence requirements on, or restrict, remittances from the united states to mexico or other jurisdictions. policy makers have also discussed potential legislation to add taxes to remittances from the united states to mexico and/or other countries. further, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. the approach of policy makers, the ongoing budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with future federal action or inaction on immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees, or other requirements or restrictions. foreign countries in similar circumstances have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes, or other requirements or restrictions, on money transfer services. a tax, fee, or other requirement or restriction exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes, fees, requirements or restrictions. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. such initiatives may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulators around the world look at each other approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation 36 table of contents are magnified by the potential they may be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees, foreign exchange spreads and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, licensing requirements, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents and their subagents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents and their subagents rely on bank accounts to provide our consumer-to-consumer money transfer services. we also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. we and our agents and their subagents are considered money service businesses, or msbs, under the bsa, including our business solutions operations. many banks view msbs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. the joint settlement agreements may prompt some banks to take this view regarding western union. we and some of our agents and their subagents have had, and in the future may have, difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks policies. if we or a significant number of our agents or their subagents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents and their subagents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents and their subagents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents or their subagents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents and their subagents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents and their subagents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents or their subagents performance. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. various jurisdictions continue to increase their focus on the potential impact of agent agreements on competition. in addition, over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa, and asia have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are 37 table of contents actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with western union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected above. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the capital resources and liquidity section in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. rules and regulations implemented under the dodd-frank act have made and continue to make significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, whose purpose is to implement, examine for compliance with and enforce federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, including for matters related to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices ( udaap ). the cfpb regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: a requirement to provide almost all consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation at a consumer request to cancel transactions that have not been completed. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. the dodd-frank act and interpretations and actions by the cfpb could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make them less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. for example, in july 2015, paymap, inc. ( paymap ), one of our subsidiaries, and the cfpb reached a settlement agreement regarding paymap marketing of its equity accelerator service (the paymap settlement agreement ). under the terms of the agreement, paymap agreed to pay approximately $33.4 million in restitution and a $5.0 million civil monetary penalty and agreed to ensure that its marketing practices and materials for 38 table of contents the equity accelerator program comply with the consumer financial protection act prohibition against udaap. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining udaap, and new model disclosures. the cfpb authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. we have been and will continue to be subject to examination by the cfpb, which defines larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services as including companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. the cfpb has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the cfpb. the cfpb has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. various jurisdictions in the united states and outside the united states have consumer protection laws and regulations, and numerous agencies are tasked with enforcing those laws and regulations. consumer protection principles continue to evolve, and some countries may enact new consumer protection laws and regulations or enhance existing consumer protection laws or regulations. increasingly, agencies tasked with enforcing consumer protection laws or regulations are communicating more frequently and coordinating efforts. for instance, icpen is an organization composed of consumer protection authorities from over 60 countries that provides a forum for developing and maintaining regular contact between consumer protection agencies and focusing on consumer protection concerns. by encouraging cooperation between agencies, icpen aims to enable its members to have a greater impact with their consumer protection laws and regulations. as the scope of consumer protection laws and regulations change, we may experience increased costs to comply and other adverse effects to our business. rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the cftc, as well as the provisions of the european market infrastructure regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the european union, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions and foreign exchange derivatives transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing requirements or may be subject to margin requirements in the united states and european union. other jurisdictions outside of the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above. derivatives regulations have added costs to our business and any additional requirements, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivative contracts, will result in additional costs or impact the way we conduct our hedging activities as well as impact how we conduct our business within our business solutions segment. in particular, the cftc has issued a proposed rule that, if adopted as proposed, would increase the likelihood that we will have to register one or more of our subsidiaries with the cftc as a swap dealer. swap dealers are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework and compliance with this framework will lead to additional costs, including costs relating to regulatory capital and margin requirements, and may impact how we conduct our hedging activities and derivatives business with customers. we continue to consider the impact the proposed rule, if adopted, would have on our hedging activities and operations. additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the united states and european union, such as under the dodd-frank act and mifid ii, are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivative contracts, may result in additional costs to our business. other jurisdictions outside the united states and the european union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements 39 table of contents correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. western union is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions, which could result in material settlements, judgments, fines or penalties. as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, sanctions, securities laws and other laws, both foreign and domestic. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement, any of which could occur or intensify as a result of the joint settlement agreements or the nydfs consent order, are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. these developments have had, and we believe will continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and in turn may result in additional litigation, or other actions. for more information, please see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies. current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to extensive requirements relating to data privacy and security under federal, state and foreign laws. these laws and requirements continue to evolve and may become increasingly difficult to comply with. for example, the ftc continues to investigate the privacy practices of many companies and has brought numerous enforcement actions, resulting in multi-year agreements governing the settling companies privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. for example, on may 25, 2018, the eu implemented the gdpr, which replaced the eu data protection directive 95/46. the gdpr imposes additional obligations and risks upon our businesses, including the risk of substantially increased penalties for non-compliance. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to meet the new obligations of the gdpr, which have required us to make significant changes to our business operations. failure to comply with existing or future data privacy and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business, and reputation. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced an increasing number of data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. 40 table of contents we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad and some of our agents are subject to unclaimed property laws in their respective jurisdictions which require us, or our agents, to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. we have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. these laws are evolving and are frequently unclear and inconsistent among various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. currently in the united states, approximately 30 states are conducting a multi-year audit of our escheatment practices through a contracted third-party auditor. we have also commenced a contemporaneous internal review as part of our participation in delaware voluntary disclosure program. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state, foreign jurisdiction, or representative thereof could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we had substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including those related to the tax imposed on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings pursuant to the tax act, as of december 31, 2018 and expect to incur additional indebtedness in 2019, which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements or any additional requirements. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide our services primarily through a network of agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we currently settle with the substantial majority of our agents in united states dollars, euros, or mexican pesos, requiring those agents to obtain local currency to pay recipients, and we generally do not rely on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer, bill payment and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate available in the wholesale foreign exchange market, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we attempt to promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to help mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar, japanese yen, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international operations. we have bill payment, money transfer, and other operations in argentina, which together represented less than 5% of our total consolidated revenues for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. the strengthening of the united states dollar against the argentine peso has had adverse impacts on our historical results of operations and cash flows, as our argentine peso-denominated revenue and operating income have been reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. additionally, beginning in the third quarter of 2018, we reflected the impact of all changes in the value of the argentine peso on our monetary assets and liabilities in net income, given argentina status as a highly inflationary economy. prior to the third quarter of 2018, changes in the argentine peso exchange rate were reflected in net income for our money transfer operations, whereas these effects were reflected in other comprehensive income for our bill payment operations. this designation did not have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations during the year ended december 31, 2018. to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations in the value of the argentine peso, we manage our working capital balances to have minimal net monetary assets denominated in the argentine peso. furthermore, the impact on our results of operations from potential declines in the value of argentine peso may be limited because of fee increases we implement that correspond to inflation in argentina. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. 74 table of contents as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income/(loss) is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $30 million and $35 million, respectively, based on our forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the following assumptions: (a) that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, (b) that fixed exchange rates between certain currency pairs are retained, (c) that the unhedged exposure is static, and (d) that we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income/(loss). interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2018 of approximately $2.3 billion. approximately $1.3 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the remainder of our interest-bearing assets primarily consists of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed rate term notes. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders deficit on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2018, we had a total of approximately $1.4 billion of borrowings, not including commercial paper, that are subject to floating interest rates. our floating rate notes had an outstanding balance of $250.0 million as of december 31, 2018 and had an effective interest rate of 3.7% or 80 basis points above three-month libor. in addition, as of december 31, 2018, a total of $175.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 325 basis points above libor. finally, interest on $950 million borrowed under our term loan facility is calculated using a selected libor rate plus an interest rate margin of 125 basis points. borrowings of $125.0 million under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is also effectively floating rate. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to vary the percentage of fixed to floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2018, our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.5%. for further detail on our variable rate borrowings, see risk factor we have substantial debt and other obligations that could restrict our operations in part i, item 1a, risk factors . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $15 million and $13 million annually based on borrowings, net of the impact of hedges, on december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2018 and 2017 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting increase/decrease to annual pre-tax income of 75 table of contents approximately $13 million and $15 million, respectively. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumptions that interest rate changes would be instantaneous and consistent across all geographies in which our interest-bearing assets are held and our liabilities are payable. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time, including the impact from commercial paper borrowings that may be outstanding in future periods. credit risk to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions, particularly through our electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash and therefore are subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us, primarily to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors there are many factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. such risks are grouped according to: risks relating to our business and industry; and risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment you should carefully consider all of these risks. risks relating to our business and industry global economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including: demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, changes in foreign exchange rates, reduced global trade, including from trade disruptions or trade restrictions, or other events, such as civil unrest, war, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health emergencies or epidemics (including, but not limited to, the coronavirus outbreak). our consumer-to-consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. a significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, restrictions on immigration, and political or other events (such as civil unrest, war, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health emergencies or epidemics) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. the prospect of reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, construction, hospitality, and technology industries, or weakness in the regional economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. if general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions or immigration laws, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected. our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. as a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. 21 table of contents our business solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. a downturn in global trade, including as a result of increased tensions regarding trade relationships between countries, or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additionally, as customer hedging activity in our business solutions business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility. our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. for more information on this risk, see risk factor we face credit, liquidity, and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. the impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. the third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. the impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. this includes the exposure generated by the business solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. that failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or finance our obligations to pay tax on certain of our previously undistributed earnings pursuant to united states tax reform legislation enacted in december 2017 (the tax act ) on favorable terms, as such amounts become due or we may have to refinance or obtain new financing on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or tax obligations, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes. our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. if any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected. banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. this could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if market disruption or volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 22 table of contents we face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, united states and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and internet-based services, and from digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. our competitors include consumer money transfer companies, banks and credit unions (including interbank partnerships), card associations, web-based services, mobile money transfer services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, automated teller machine providers and operators, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, and digital currencies. these services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. our business, distribution network and channel options, such as our electronic channels, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, including from new competitors and the consolidation of competitors and the expansion of their services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. for example, we have experienced increased competition in money transfers sent and received within the united states from competitors that do not charge a fee to send or receive money through bank accounts. the potential international expansion of these competitors could represent significant competition to us. our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. for example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. as noted below under risk factor risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows , many of our agents outside the united states are national post offices. these entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. international postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. if customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. a number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. these factors include: changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional consumer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; 23 table of contents the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving customer needs and preferences, including consumer preferences related to our westernunion.com and mobile money transfer services; failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements; reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection in connection with the joint settlement agreements, the nydfs consent order, or other matters; actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors; federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data either pursuant to requirements under the joint settlement agreements or other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required; any significant interruption in our systems, including by unauthorized entry and computer viruses, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, or disruptions in our workforce; and any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities, or of certain of our third-party providers, resulting in a compromise of personal or other data. many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business. our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. we actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and business solutions payments services, including internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. failure to respond timely and well to these challenges could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than our traditional cash/agent model or our current electronic money transfer model. risks associated with operations outside the united states and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the united states dollar. as a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. for example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. in an environment of a rising united states dollar relative to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating income and net monetary assets would be reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. some of these adverse financial effects may be partially mitigated by foreign currency hedging activities. in an environment of a declining 24 table of contents united states dollar relative to the euro, some of the translation benefits on our reported financial results could be limited by the impact of foreign currency hedging activities. we are also subject to changes in the value of other foreign currencies, including the british pound, which may experience volatility due to the united kingdom's exit from the eu. we operate in almost all developing markets throughout the world. in many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we currently reimburse most of our agents in either united states dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. however, in certain of these developing markets we settle transactions in local currencies and generate revenue from send transactions. our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating income. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. however, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates. if we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. for further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense below. money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. at times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the united states. occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services; see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity below. additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. these risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the united states and other more developed countries. many of our agents outside the united states are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. these governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. for example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal 25 table of contents operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a post bank, which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. these changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business. breaches of our information security safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we collect, transfer and retain confidential and personal information about consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents and other individuals as part of our business. with our services being offered in more than 200 countries and territories, these activities are subject to laws and regulations in the united states and many other jurisdictions; see risk factor current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition below. the requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions in which we operate and can have impacts on our business operations, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately accessed, used or disclosed and protect financial services providers and other regulated entities and their customers, as well as information technology systems, from cyber attacks. we believe we have developed and maintain administrative, technical and physical safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could circumvent these safeguards to improperly access our systems or documents, or the systems or documents of our business partners, agents, or service providers, and improperly access, obtain, misuse or disclose sensitive business information or personal information about our consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents or others, or that a third-party service provider could experience a cybersecurity incident or intentionally or inadvertently use, disclose or make available sensitive business information or personal information to unauthorized parties or in violation of law. for example, a significant and increasing amount of our data is collected and stored by third parties, including providers of cloud-based software services. in 2016, we determined hackers had accessed the system of one of our third-party providers and improperly obtained copies of confidential data hosted on the system of one of our third-party providers. western union systems and money transfer operations were not impacted. security incidents such as these have the potential to impose material costs on the company and there can be no assurance that additional security incidents will not occur in the future. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. additionally, transactions undertaken through our websites or other electronic channels may create risks of fraud, hacking, unauthorized access or acquisition, and other deceptive practices. any security incident resulting in a compromise of sensitive business information or the personal information of consumers, business customer representatives, employees, applicants, agents or other individuals, could result in material costs to us and require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual incident, expose us to regulatory enforcement actions, including substantial fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant adverse effect on our business. our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of business. these systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from unauthorized entry and computer viruses, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. additionally, any significant damage or interruptions in the computer information systems of our agents or other partners could result in a disruption in providing our services to consumers at their locations. further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks. these attackers and attacks, which may even be initiated by nation-states, have continued to become more sophisticated and are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the company's business. the safeguards we have designed to help prevent future security incidents and systems disruptions, and comply with 26 table of contents applicable legal requirements may not be successful and we may experience material security incidents, disruptions or other problems in the future. we also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which could harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. these applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. in addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of whom are located outside the united states, could adversely affect our business. we receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business. some services relating to our business, such as cloud-based software service providers, software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, merchant acquiring services, call center services, check clearing, processing of returned checks, and other operating activities are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. if our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results. we have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the united states. as of december 31, 2019, we had $2,566.6 million of goodwill comprising approximately 30% of our total assets, including $1,980.7 million of goodwill in our consumer-to-consumer reporting unit and $532.0 million of goodwill in our business solutions reporting unit. if we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $464.0 million related to our business solutions reporting unit, as further described in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 5, divestitures, business combinations, and goodwill. the fair value of the business solutions reporting unit continues to be sensitive to changes in projections for revenue growth rates and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ( ebitda ) margins. any reduction in anticipated future operating cash flows or the occurrence of further negative factors impacting the fair value of the business solutions reporting unit could result in another write down of goodwill, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition to the risk of goodwill impairment, the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of other risks. the core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). another risk is the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance; see risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment below. acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses; managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; 27 table of contents integrating the acquired technologies into our company; complying with regulatory requirements, including those particular to the industry and jurisdiction of the acquired business; enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by united states companies in particular. integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. divestitures and contingent liabilities from divested businesses could adversely affect our business and financial results. we continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, in may 2019, we sold a substantial majority of our united states based electronic bill payments services, as previously discussed. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain contingent liabilities related to the divested business. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated, which could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, and some divestitures may be dilutive to earnings. there can be no assurance whether the strategic benefits and expected financial impact of the divestiture will be achieved. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 table of contents we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from restructuring and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives. we are currently engaged in restructuring actions and activities associated with business transformation, productivity improvement initiatives, and expense reduction measures. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion regarding our restructuring plan initiated in 2019 designed to change our operating model and improve our business processes and cost structure by reorganizing our senior management, reducing our headcount, and consolidating various facilities. we may implement additional initiatives in future periods. while these initiatives are designed to increase operational effectiveness and productivity and result in improved profitability, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. in addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain key personnel, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. if we do not realize the anticipated benefits from these or similar initiatives, or the costs to implement future initiatives are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. we face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers, businesses, and third-party processors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the significant majority of our consumer-to-consumer money transfer activity and our walk-in bill payment and money order activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. these agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. as a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. in some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. we are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. if an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer. the liquidity of our agents and other parties we transact with directly, including merchant acquirers, is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. if our agents or other partners fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected. from time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, advances to our agents. we generally owe settlement funds payable to these agents that offset these advances. however, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances constitutes a credit risk to us. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (i) derivatives written by us to our customers and (ii) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. if a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have extended trade credit. we offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via websites and mobile devices. these transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses than transactions initiated at agent locations. additionally, money transfers funded by ach, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. we apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. however, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. as the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to 29 table of contents block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. we may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. such fees and penalties increase over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations. to help ensure availability of our worldwide cash where needed, we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies, including decisions related to the amounts, timing and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. these decisions can influence our overall tax rate and impact our total liquidity. our overall liquidity may also be impacted by regulations or their interpretations that, if fully enacted or implemented, could require us to register as a swap dealer and post collateral in connection with our derivative financial instruments used to hedge our exposures arising in connection with changes to foreign currency exchange rates. if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms acceptable to us or consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected. most of our consumer-to-consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. if, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms acceptable to us or consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. for example, the joint settlement agreements and the nydfs consent order subjected us to heightened requirements relating to agent oversight, which resulted in and may continue to result in agent attrition. further, certain agents decided to leave our network due to reputational concerns related to the joint settlement agreements and the nydfs consent order. in addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, changes in the economy, or factors impacting our agents' ability to settle with us, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts or changes to compliance requirements. because an agent is a third-party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. see risk factor regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity below. in addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. we rely on our agents' technology systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. if an agent or its subagent experiences a breach of its systems, if there is a significant disruption to the technology systems of an agent or its subagent, 30 table of contents or if an agent or its subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the company. in business solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. in our various bill payments services, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers and government agencies. our relationships with these businesses and other organizations are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from payment services through these relationships. increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. we have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks' policies. if we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms acceptable to us or consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. as a result of offering our services, our agents may be subject to various taxes, as governments outside the united states have viewed and may continue to view our agents' services as subject to income, withholding, and other taxes. any such taxes that are levied on our agents could make it less desirable for agents to offer our services, which could result in increased agent attrition, agents ceasing to offer some of our services, or increased costs to maintain our agent network, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. changes in tax laws, or their interpretation, and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or their interpretation, both domestically and internationally. for example, in december 2017, the tax act was enacted into united states law. among other things, the tax act imposes a tax on certain previously undistributed foreign earnings, establishes minimum taxes related to certain payments deemed to erode the united states tax base, and retains and expands united states taxation on a broad range of foreign earnings (whether or not the earnings have been repatriated) while effectively exempting certain types of foreign earnings from united states tax. in addition, the tax act is broad and complex, and any changes or clarifications in the interpretation of the tax act or other legislative proposals or amendments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. furthermore, the effect of certain aspects of the tax act on state income tax frameworks could change as states update their laws for these aspects, and potential changes to state income tax laws or their interpretation could further increase our income tax expense. additionally, the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) has asked countries around the globe to act to prevent what it refers to as base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ). the oecd considers beps to refer to tax planning strategies that shift, perhaps artificially, profits across borders to take advantage of differing tax laws and rates among countries. tax reforms recommended in the beps action plan include changes that would impact, among other things, global tax reporting, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, the definition of taxable permanent establishments, and other legal or financial arrangements that are viewed as causing beps. significant components of the beps action plan were published by the oecd in october 2015 and a number of governments have enacted or proposed rules to implement changes specifically suggested in the recommendations or other changes, such as specific economic substance rules, inspired by beps-style considerations. furthermore, the oecd is seeking to gain consensus around further changes in traditional international tax principles to address, among other things, perceived challenges presented by global digital commerce, under a so-called beps 2.0 initiative. any material change in tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, resulting from beps, beps 2.0, or other legislative proposals or inquiries could result in a higher effective tax rate on our earnings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and foreign taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. we have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. as of december 31, 2019, the total amount of 31 table of contents unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $309.0 million, including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. while we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. with respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e., new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. downgrades in our credit ratings, or their review or revision to a negative outlook, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and could damage perceptions of our financial strength, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. in addition, adverse ratings actions could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes, our revolving credit facility, and our term loan facility, and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. there can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock. for risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see part ii, item 5, market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims. the western union and wu brands, which are protected by trademark registrations in many countries, are material to our company. the loss of the western union or wu trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality of products or services associated with the names would harm our business. similar to the western union and wu trademarks, the orlandi valuta, vigo, western union business solutions, pago f cil, western union payments, quick collect, quick pay, pay@wu, quick cash, convenience pay, and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business. our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not always protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the united states or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our products or services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. we have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology, business methods, or marketing or other materials (including elements thereof) infringe intellectual property or other third-party rights, both inside and outside the united states. unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver or promote a service, result in 32 table of contents significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2019, we held $1.7 billion in investment securities, the significant majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. the majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the united states and money transfers sent by consumers. we regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling $237.1 million as of december 31, 2019. the fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation of $248.5 million to determine the pension liability of $11.4 million recorded within other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2019. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. we have substantial debt and other obligations that could restrict our operations. as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.2 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. furthermore, the tax act imposes a tax on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings, which we have elected to pay in periodic installments through 2025. our indebtedness and tax obligations could have adverse consequences, including: limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices; increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or tax obligations, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom ( uk ), which regulates libor, publicly announced that it will no longer compel or persuade banks to make libor submissions after 2021. this announcement is expected to effectively end libor rates beginning in 2022, and while other alternatives, such as the secured overnight financing rate, have been proposed, it is unclear which, if any, alternative to libor will be available and widely accepted in major financial markets. we currently have borrowings that are subject to libor-based interest rates, including borrowings under our term loan facility. historically, we have utilized libor-based interest rate swaps to vary the percentage of fixed to floating rate debt, subject to market conditions, and we may continue to use similar instruments in 33 table of contents the future. if an alternative to libor is not available and widely accepted after 2021, our ability to borrow at floating interest rates may be adversely impacted, as the costs associated with any potential future borrowings or interest rate swaps requiring us to pay floating interest rates may increase. risks related to our regulatory and litigation environment as described under part i, item 1, business , our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the united states federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, sanctions and anti-fraud, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, or detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. the interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies may change quickly and with little notice. additionally, these requirements or their interpretations in one jurisdiction may conflict with those of another jurisdiction. as united states federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements could continue to increase, perhaps substantially, and may make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating income. for example, in recent years we have made significant additional investments in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving and increasingly complex global regulatory and enforcement environment and our internal reviews. these additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. further, failure by western union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom western union has limited legal and practical control), and service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) in the united states and similar laws in other countries, such as the bribery act in the uk, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. some of these laws, such as the bribery act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the fcpa, the bribery act, and other national anti-corruption laws. any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our united states business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the bsa and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the united states department of the treasury financial crimes enforcement network ( fincen ). we have subsidiaries in brazil and austria that are subject to banking regulations. our austrian banking subsidiary is also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the nydfs. we also operate 34 table of contents through a small number of licensed payment institutions in the eu. under the payment services directive ( psd ), as amended by a revised payment services directive known as psd2, and the 4th and 5th anti-money laundering directive in the eu, our operating companies that are licensed in the eu have increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, agent oversight and monitoring requirements, as well as broader supervision by eu member states. additionally, the financial penalties associated with the failure to comply with anti-money laundering laws have increased in recent regulation, including the 4 th anti-money laundering directive in the eu. these laws have increased and will continue to increase our costs and could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. legislation that has been enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions could have similar effects. the remittance industry, including western union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. for example, as further discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies, in early 2017, we entered into the joint settlement agreements with the united states department of justice ( doj ), certain united states attorney's offices, the ftc, fincen, and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies, and in early 2018, we agreed to the nydfs consent order. the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced has had, and could in the future have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. in some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in many jurisdictions where western union is licensed to offer money transfer services, the license holder is responsible for ensuring the agent's compliance with the rules that govern the money transfer service. for example, in the eu, western union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents when they are acting on behalf of our irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the central bank of ireland. the majority of our eu consumer money transfer activity is managed through our irish payment institution. thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against western union because of actions by our agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. the regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act may also impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. the requirements under the psd, the dodd-frank act and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased compliance costs, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. additional countries may adopt similar legislation. the uk left the eu on january 31, 2020 ( brexit ), following a referendum and a notification to the eu, under article 50 of the treaty on the european union. in advance of brexit, the uk and the eu ratified an agreement governing the terms of the uk's withdrawal from the eu (the withdrawal agreement ). under the terms of the withdrawal agreement, certain regulated financial service providers may continue to rely on eu regulatory passport rights until december 31, 2020 to provide services between the uk and eu without needing to obtain separate local regulatory authorizations in the relevant jurisdictions. to ensure that our operations will continue in the uk, which represented 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019, we have set up a new payment institution to conduct money remittance in the uk, which was authorized by the financial conduct authority in april 2019, and presently offers retail money transfer via uk agents. we have also applied for the uk branch of our austrian banking subsidiary to be authorized by the uk prudential regulation authority as a uk branch of a non-uk bank in order to continue to conduct our uk business solutions and digital money transfer operations. authorization is expected to be granted in 2020. this uk branch will be subject to certain additional uk regulatory requirements upon authorization. further, as a result of brexit, including under the terms of any new regulatory authorizations we have and may obtain, we could be required to comply with differing regulatory requirements in the uk as a result of divergence from established eu regulation. this could make it more costly for us to provide our services. 35 table of contents our business is the subject of consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators. as further described under in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies of this form 10-k, in early 2017, the company entered into joint settlement agreements with the doj, certain united states attorney's offices, the ftc, fincen, and various state attorneys general to resolve the respective investigations of those agencies. under the joint settlement agreements, the company was required, among other things, to pay an aggregate amount of $586 million to the doj to be used to reimburse consumers who were the victims of third-party fraud conducted through the company's money transfer services, and retain an independent compliance auditor for three years to review and assess actions taken by the company to further enhance its oversight of agents and protection of consumers, both of which were performed by the company during 2017. the joint settlement agreements also required the company to adopt certain new or enhanced practices with respect to its compliance program, relating to, among other things, consumer reimbursement, agent due diligence, agent training, monitoring, reporting, and record-keeping by the company and its agents, consumer fraud disclosures, and agent suspensions and terminations. the ongoing obligations under the joint settlement agreements could have adverse effects on the company's business, including additional costs and potential loss of business. the company has also faced actions from other regulators as a result of the joint settlement agreements. for example, as further described in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies of this form 10-k, on july 28, 2017, the nydfs informed the company that the facts set forth in the deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the doj and with certain other united states attorney's offices regarding the company's anti-money laundering programs over the 2004 through 2012 period gave the nydfs a basis to take additional enforcement action. in january 2018, the company agreed to the nydfs consent order with the nydfs which required the company to pay a civil monetary penalty of $60 million to the nydfs and resolved its investigation into these matters. if the company fails to comply with the joint settlement agreements, it could face criminal prosecution, civil litigation, significant fines, damage awards or other regulatory consequences. any or all of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our company. the evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. new and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services; see risk factor the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows . recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the united states has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. if governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. for example, in early 2017, we entered into the joint settlement agreements, and in early 2018, we agreed to the nydfs consent order, as further discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies. in addition, u.s. policy makers may seek heightened customer due diligence requirements on, or restrict, remittances from the united states to mexico, cuba, or other jurisdictions. policy makers have also discussed potential legislation to add taxes to remittances from the united states to mexico and/or other countries. further, one state has passed a law imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. 36 table of contents the approach of policy makers, the ongoing budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with future federal action or inaction on immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees, or other requirements or restrictions. foreign countries in similar circumstances have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes, or other requirements or restrictions, on money transfer services. a tax, fee, or other requirement or restriction exclusively on money transfer services like western union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes, fees, requirements or restrictions. other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. such initiatives may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. as a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they may be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees, foreign exchange spreads and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. further, political changes and trends such as populism, economic nationalism, protectionism, and negative sentiment towards multinational companies could result in laws or regulations that adversely impact our ability to conduct business in certain jurisdictions. any of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, licensing requirements, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents and their subagents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. for example, we and our agents and their subagents rely on bank accounts to provide our consumer-to-consumer money transfer services. we also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. we and our agents and their subagents are considered money service businesses ( msbs ) under the bsa, including our business solutions operations. many banks view msbs as a class of higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. the joint settlement agreements may prompt some banks to take this view regarding western union. we and some of our agents and their subagents have had, and in the future may have, difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. if we or a significant number of our agents or their subagents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents and their subagents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents and their subagents vary significantly from one country to another. changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents or their subagents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents and their subagents. for example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from 37 table of contents offering our services in an affected country. further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. changes mandated by laws which make western union responsible for acts of its agents and their subagents while they are providing the western union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' or their subagents' performance. although most of our orlandi valuta and vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our western union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. while we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. various jurisdictions continue to increase their focus on the potential impact of agent agreements on competition. in addition, over the past several years, several countries in eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, africa, and asia have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. in addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. see risk factor if we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms acceptable to us or consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected above. the inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the western union brand at our agent locations. on august 1, 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to change our operating model and improve our business processes and cost structure by reorganizing our senior management, including those managers reporting to our chief executive officer, reducing our headcount, and consolidating various facilities. as our services are regulated by various government agencies throughout the world, any changes to our business model may require disclosure to our regulators, and regulators may require us to adjust our business model or proposal, either of which could impact our ability to deliver our services in the most cost-effective manner. in addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the capital resources and liquidity section in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. if our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity. the dodd-frank act, as well as the regulations required by that act and the actions of the consumer financial protection bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. rules and regulations implemented under the dodd-frank act have made and continue to make significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. in addition, the dodd-frank act created the cfpb, which implements, examines compliance with and enforces federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. the cfpb has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, including for matters related to unfair, 38 table of contents deceptive, or abusive acts and practices ( udaap ). the cfpb's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the dodd-frank act have affected our business in a variety of areas. these include: (i) a requirement to provide consumers sending funds internationally from the united states enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures and transaction receipts, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, (ii) an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and (iii) an obligation at a consumer's request to cancel transactions that have not been completed. in addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. these requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under cfpb regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results. in addition, the dodd-frank act and interpretations and actions by the cfpb have had, and could continue to have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make them less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. the cfpb has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. the cfpb has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. it is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. for example, in july 2015, paymap, inc. ( paymap ), one of our former subsidiaries, and the cfpb reached a settlement agreement regarding paymap's marketing of its equity accelerator service (the paymap settlement agreement ). under the terms of the agreement, paymap agreed to pay $33.4 million in restitution and a $5.0 million civil monetary penalty and agreed to ensure that its marketing practices and materials for the equity accelerator program comply with the consumer financial protection act's prohibition against udaap. in addition, the cfpb may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining udaap, and new model disclosures. the cfpb's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. in addition, attorneys general of the various states of the united states also have authority to enforce the consumer protection provisions of the dodd-frank act in their respective jurisdictions. we have been and continue to be subject to examination by the cfpb, which defines larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services as including companies, such as western union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. the cfpb has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the cfpb. the cfpb has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. the effect of the dodd-frank act and the cfpb on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the dodd-frank act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under dodd-frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our business solutions segment. these financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services. various jurisdictions in the united states and outside the united states have consumer protection laws and regulations, and numerous governmental agencies are tasked with enforcing those laws and regulations. consumer protection principles continue to evolve globally, and new or enhanced consumer protection laws and regulations may be adopted. governmental agencies tasked with enforcing consumer protection laws or regulations are communicating more frequently and coordinating their efforts to protect consumers. for instance, icpen is an organization composed of consumer protection authorities from over 60 countries that provides a forum for developing and maintaining regular contact between consumer protection agencies and focusing on consumer protection concerns. by encouraging cooperation between agencies, icpen aims to enable its members to have a greater impact with their consumer protection laws and regulations. as the scope of consumer protection laws and regulations change, we may experience increased costs to comply and other adverse effects to our business. 39 table of contents rules adopted under the dodd-frank act by the cftc, as well as the provisions of the european market infrastructure regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the eu, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivatives contracts we offer as part of our business solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions and foreign exchange derivatives transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing requirements or may be subject to margin requirements in the united states and eu. other jurisdictions outside of the united states and the eu are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above. derivatives regulations have added costs to our business and any additional requirements, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivatives contracts, will result in additional costs or impact the way we conduct our hedging activities as well as impact how we conduct our business within our business solutions segment. in 2016, the cftc published a proposed rule that, if adopted as proposed, would have increased the likelihood that we would have had to register one or more of our subsidiaries with the cftc as a swap dealer. in early 2020, the cftc withdrew the 2016 proposal and replaced it with a new proposed rule that, if adopted as proposed, we believe will decrease that likelihood relative to the 2016 proposal. however, there does remain some risk that we will have to register one or more of our subsidiaries with the cftc as a swap dealer in the future. swap dealers are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework and compliance with this framework will lead to additional costs, including costs relating to regulatory capital and margin requirements, and may impact how we conduct our hedging activities and derivatives business with customers. we continue to consider the impact the proposed rule, if adopted, would have on our hedging activities and operations. additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the united states and eu, such as under the dodd-frank act and mifid ii, are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of derivatives contracts, may result in additional costs to our business. other jurisdictions outside the united states and the eu are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well. our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. our business is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions, which could result in material settlements, judgments, fines or penalties. as a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, sanctions, securities laws and other laws, both foreign and domestic. we also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement, any of which could occur or intensify as a result of the joint settlement agreements, are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. these developments have had, and we believe will continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and in turn may result in additional litigation, or other actions. for more information, please see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , note 6, commitments and contingencies. current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to extensive requirements relating to data privacy and security under federal, state and foreign laws. these laws and requirements continue to evolve and may become increasingly difficult to comply with. for example, the ftc continues to investigate the privacy practices of many companies and has brought numerous enforcement actions, resulting in multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. furthermore, certain industry 40 table of contents groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. as the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. for example, on may 25, 2018, the eu implemented the gdpr, which replaced the eu's data protection directive 95/46. the gdpr imposes additional obligations and risks upon our businesses, including the risk of substantially increased penalties for non-compliance. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur expenses to meet the obligations of the gdpr, which have required us to make significant changes to our business operations. we are also subject to data privacy and security laws in various states, such as the california consumer privacy act, which became effective on january 1, 2020, that imposes heightened data privacy requirements on companies that collect information from california residents and creates a broad set of privacy rights and remedies modeled in part on the gdpr. failure to comply with existing or future data privacy and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business, and reputation. in addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, western union makes information available to certain united states federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. in recent years, western union has experienced an increasing number of data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. during the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. these regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose western union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. we are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to unclaimed property laws in the united states and abroad and some of our agents are subject to unclaimed property laws in their respective jurisdictions which require us, or our agents, to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. we have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. these laws are evolving and are frequently unclear and inconsistent among various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. in addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. currently in the united states, approximately 30 states are conducting a multi-year audit of our escheatment practices through a contracted third-party auditor. we have also commenced a contemporaneous internal review as part of our participation in delaware's voluntary disclosure program. any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state, foreign jurisdiction, or representative thereof could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. our consolidated balance sheets may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. we have substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including those related to the tax imposed on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings pursuant to the tax act, which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements or any additional requirements. in addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of united states law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as tier 1 regulatory capital under the 41 table of contents basel committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. these regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. a risk management program is in place to manage these risks. foreign currency exchange rates we provide our services primarily through a network of agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories. we manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. we currently settle with the substantial majority of our agents in united states dollars, euros, or mexican pesos, requiring those agents to obtain local currency to pay recipients, and we generally do not rely on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. however, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. the foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are 65 table of contents initiated, and agent settlements occur within a few days in most instances. to mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. we also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. in certain consumer money transfer, bill payment, and business solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate available in the wholesale foreign exchange market, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. we attempt to promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies. we use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to help mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, and other currencies. we use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. we believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international operations. we have bill payment, money transfer, and other operations in argentina, which together represented less than 5% of our total consolidated revenues for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018. the strengthening of the united states dollar against the argentine peso has had adverse impacts on our historical results of operations and cash flows, as our argentine peso-denominated revenue and operating income have been reduced when translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. additionally, beginning in the third quarter of 2018, we reflected the impact of all changes in the value of the argentine peso on our monetary assets and liabilities in net income, given argentina's status as a highly inflationary economy. prior to the third quarter of 2018, changes in the argentine peso exchange rate were reflected in net income for our money transfer operations, whereas these effects were reflected in other comprehensive income for our bill payment operations. during the third quarter of 2019, the argentine government imposed restrictions that limit the transfer of cash outside of the country. while we manage our working capital balances to have minimal net monetary assets denominated in the argentine peso, further policy restrictions could cause our cash and cash equivalents held in the argentine peso to increase in future periods, including as a result of cash flows generated by our operations. therefore, the continued devaluation of the argentine peso could adversely affect our results of operations, and limits on repatriating excess cash balances could adversely affect future distributions of excess cash from argentina or increase the costs of these repatriations. we have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our business solutions business. the majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. in certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. the duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. business solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. as of december 31, 2019, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the united states dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $45 million, based on our forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency at that date. there are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the following assumptions: (i) foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, (ii) fixed exchange rates between certain currency pairs are retained, (iii) the unhedged exposure is static, and (iv) we would not hedge any additional exposure. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. 66 table of contents interest rates we invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of december 31, 2019 of approximately $2.7 billion. approximately $1.4 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. these assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable-rate securities and are included in our consolidated balance sheets within cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets. to the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as settlement assets. earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. the remainder of our interest-bearing assets primarily consists of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed-rate term notes. these investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services that is awaiting redemption and is classified within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. we have classified these investments as available-for-sale within settlement assets in the consolidated balance sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our total stockholders' deficit on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2019, we had a total of approximately $1.2 billion of borrowings that are subject to floating interest rates. interest on $950.0 million borrowed under our term loan facility is calculated using a selected libor rate plus an interest rate margin of 125 basis points. borrowings of $245.0 million under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is also effectively floating rate. we review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position and the duration of each individual position. we manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs, and improve returns. our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. the latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). from time to time, we use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to vary the percentage of fixed to floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. as of december 31, 2019, our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.0%. for further detail on our floating-rate borrowings, see risk factor we have substantial debt and other obligations that could restrict our operations in part i, item 1a, risk factors . a hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to annual pre-tax income of approximately $12 million based on borrowings that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, net of the impact of hedges, on december 31, 2019. the same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on december 31, 2019 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting increase/decrease to annual pre-tax income of approximately $14 million. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumptions that interest rate changes would be instantaneous and consistent across all geographies in which our interest-bearing assets are held and our liabilities are payable. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. in addition, the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time, including the impact from commercial paper borrowings that may be outstanding in future periods. credit risk to manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions. 67 table of contents we are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. we perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. in addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions, particularly through our electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash and are therefore subject to chargebacks, insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. we are exposed to credit risk in our business solutions business relating to: (i) derivatives written by us, primarily to our customers, and (ii) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. for the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. the credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. for those receivables where we have extended trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. to mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. our losses associated with bad debts have been approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented. 68 table of contents