quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33risk factors 23 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrant businesses and reviews those risks with the firstenergy board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy and our subsidiaries. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to business operations risks arising from the reliability of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including, the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. 23 table of contents operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operating and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer mwh or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. fes, fgco and the ohio companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, fes, fgco and the ohio companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.36 billion for fes, $666 million for oe and an aggregate of $622 million for te and cei as co-lessees. we remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. changes in commodity prices could adversely affect our profit margins we purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. changes in the market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply polr and default service obligations in the states we do business. in addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a variety of reasons, including: changing weather conditions or seasonality; changes in electricity usage by our customers; illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets; transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; changes in supply and demand for energy commodities; changes in power production capacity; outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; changes in legislation and regulation; and natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs authorized by the ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant . extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. 24 table of contents we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs in july 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how over-the-counter (otc) derivatives are regulated. the law increased regulatory oversight of otc energy derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized otc derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the commodity futures trading commission (cftc), (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits. the law gives the cftc authority to exempt end users of energy commodities which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us and other end users. these requirements could cause our otc transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on our liquidity due to additional capital requirements. in addition, as these reforms aim to standardize otc products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor otc derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to protect. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. we also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of executing the contract. although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non-performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. if counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices. in that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation including increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. our nuclear facilities are insured under neil policies issued for each plant. under these policies, up to $2.8 billion of insurance coverage is provided for property damage and decontamination and decommissioning costs. we have also obtained approximately $2.0 billion of insurance coverage for replacement power costs. under these policies, we can be assessed a maximum of approximately $79 million for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a policy year that are in excess of accumulated funds available to the insurer for paying losses. the price-anderson act limits the public liability that can be assessed with respect to a nuclear power plant to $12.6 billion (assuming 104 units licensed to operate in the united states) for a single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to $375 million; and (ii) $12.2 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan. under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the united states resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) must be contributed for each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. our maximum potential exposure under these provisions would be $470 million per incident but not more than $70 million in any one year. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust fund, pension fund assets and other trust funds which then could require significant additional funding our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. the value of certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or greater liability levels can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. 26 table of contents we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets and the states in which we do business as a result of the epact, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the nerc and approved by ferc as well as mandatory reliability standards and energy efficiency requirements imposed by each of the states in which we operate. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now mandatory and could subject us to potential civil penalties for violations which could negatively impact our business. the ferc can now impose penalties of $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by the ferc and the states, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, the rtos may direct our transmission owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet the reliability requirements of the rto or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the rto tariffs. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by independent system operators, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover for such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in miso, pjm or the ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures. the ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. disruptions in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities and impact financial results we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. although we have long-term contracts in place for our coal and coal transportation needs, power generators in the midwest and the northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 27 table of contents temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snow storms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required under the terms of the default service tariffs to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at capped rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows the economic cycles of our customers. as our retail strategy is centered around the sale of output from our generating plants generally where that power will reach, therefore, we are more directly impacted by the economic conditions in our primary markets (i.e., pennsylvania, ohio, maryland, new jersey, michigan and illinois). declines in demand for electricity as a result of a regional economic downturn would be expected to reduce overall electricity sales and reduce our revenues. electric generation sales volume has been, and is expected to continue to be, influenced by circumstances in automotive, steel and other heavy industries. increases in customer electric rates and economic uncertainty may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer accounts our operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the goodwill of one or more of our operating subsidiaries may become impaired, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. the actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years would depend on many uncertainties, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, our capital structure, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable utility acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. we face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we must find ways to retain our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments. 28 table of contents significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. however, we expect cost pressures could increase as we continue to implement our retail sales strategy. we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. our business is subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to our reputation and/or results of operations our business requires access to sensitive customer data, including personal and credit information, in the ordinary course of business. a security breach may occur, despite security measures taken by us and required of vendors. if a significant or widely publicized breach occurred, our business reputation may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may become subject to legal claims, fines or penalties, any of which could have a negative impact on our business and/or results of operations. acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business the possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters our business plan calls for extensive capital investments. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. we have engaged numerous contractors and entered into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. this could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in completing construction projects. changes in technology may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive we primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. 29 table of contents ability of certain firstenergy companies to meet their obligations to other firstenergy companies certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services, and because of hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall firstenergy exposures. some firstenergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. risks associated with our proposed merger with allegheny we may be unable to obtain the approvals required to complete our merger with allegheny or, in order to do so, the combined company may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions on february 11, 2010, we announced the execution of a merger agreement with allegheny. the only regulatory approval pending is from the ppuc. the ppuc could impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined company following completion of the merger. these conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the combined company and/or cause either us or allegheny to abandon the merger. if completed, our merger with allegheny may not achieve its intended results we and allegheny entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to both the regulated utility operations and the generation business. achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the business of allegheny is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company business, financial results and prospects. we will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger with allegheny is pending that could adversely affect our financial results uncertainty about the effect of the merger with allegheny on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us. although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. if, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to accept employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, our financial results could be affected. the pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of allegheny into our company may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. the diversion of management attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results. in addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without allegheny consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. these restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. failure to complete our merger with allegheny could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results if our merger with allegheny is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may be required, under specified circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, to pay allegheny a termination fee of $350 million and/or allegheny reasonable out-of-pocket transaction expenses up to $45 million; we would be required to pay costs relating to the merger, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing and printing costs, whether or not the merger is completed; and matters relating to our merger with allegheny (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. we could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete our merger with allegheny. if our merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. 30 table of contents risks associated with regulation complex and changing government regulations could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not be set to recover its expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. for example, our utility subsidiaries ability to timely recover rates and charges associated with integration of the atsi footprint into pjm is uncertain. regulatory changes in the electric industry, including a reversal, discontinuance or delay of the present trend toward competitive markets, could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities conduct their business. some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning to market-based pricing. in some instances, state and federal government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to impose rate cap extensions or otherwise delay market restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, proposals to re-regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. such delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. if the restructuring, deregulation or re-regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re-regulate our business or the industry. the prospect of rising rates could prompt legislative or regulatory action to restrict or control such rate increases. this in turn could create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect the utilities ability to recover their costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements increases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those increases. such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. the public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. such costs could ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increase costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks. 31 table of contents our profitability is impacted by our affiliated companies continued authorization to sell power at market-based rates the ferc granted fes, fgco and ngc authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. these orders also granted them waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements. the utilities also have market-based rate authority. the ferc orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. as a condition to the orders granting the generating companies market-based rate authority, every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the ferc standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market-based rates. fes, fgco, ngc and the utilities renewed this authority for pjm in 2008 and miso in 2009. on december 30, 2010, fes, fgco, ngc and the utilities filed to renew this authority for operations within pjm. if any of these companies were to lose their market-based rate authority, they would be required to obtain the ferc acceptance to sell power at cost-based rates. fes, fgco and ngc could also lose their waivers, and become subject to the accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos rto rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and attendant congestion costs. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. the rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. while rto rates for transmission service are cost based, our revenues from customers to whom we currently provide transmission services may not reflect all of the administrative and market-related costs imposed under the rto tariff. in addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. finally, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our internal planning process. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. the miso has proposed changes to its rates and tariffs that may result or cause significant charges to atsi or the ohio companies or penn upon their respective withdrawal from the miso on may 31, 2011. the implementation of these and other new market designs has the potential to increase our costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the market and costs associated with estimated payment settlements. because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how rtos will ultimately develop and operate, or what region they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing rto developments may have. 32 table of contents a significant delay in or challenges to various elements of atsi consolidation into pjm, including but not limited to, the intervention of parties to the regulatory proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition on december 17, 2009, ferc authorized, subject to certain conditions, firstenergy to consolidate its transmission assets and operations that currently are located in miso into pjm; such consolidation to be effective on june 1, 2011. the consolidation will make the transmission assets that are part of atsi, whose footprint includes the ohio companies and penn, part of pjm. consolidation on june 1, 2011 will coincide with delivery of power under the next competitive generation procurement process for the ohio companies. on december 17, 2009, and after ferc issued the order, atsi executed and delivered to pjm those legal documents necessary to implement its consolidation into pjm. on december 18, 2009, the ohio companies and penn executed and delivered to pjm those legal documents necessary to follow atsi into pjm. currently, atsi, the ohio companies and penn are expected to consolidate into pjm as planned on june 1, 2011. on february 1, 2011, atsi filed its proposal with ferc for moving its transmission rate into pjm tariffs. numerous parties are expected to intervene and file responsive comments. our expectation is that atsi will enter pjm as scheduled on june 1, 2011, and that if legal proceedings regarding its rate are outstanding at that time, atsi will be permitted to start charging its proposed rates, subject to refund. additional ferc proceedings are either pending or expected in which the amount of exit fees, transmission cost allocations, and costs associated with long term firm transmission rights payable by the atsi zone upon its departure from the midwest iso will be determined. in addition, certain other parties continue to protest aspects of the move into pjm, and certain of these matters remain outstanding and will be resolved in future ferc proceedings . a ruling by ferc or any other regulator with jurisdiction in favor of one or more of the intervening or protesting parties (and against firstenergy) on one or more of the disputed issues could result in a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our merchant generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery timeframe in ohio and pennsylvania. in new jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the sbc. currently only ohio has provisions for recovery of lost revenues. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. our results could be affected if we are unable to increase our customer participation in our energy efficiency programs. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements we may be forced to shut down facilities, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with certain environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. in fact, we are exposed to the risk that such electric generating plants would not be permitted to continue to operate if pollution control equipment is not installed by prescribed deadlines. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of our generating plants, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations. for example, applicable standards under the epa nsr initiatives remain in flux. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that causes increased emissions could subject our existing facilities to the far more stringent nsr standards applicable to new facilities. 33 table of contents the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work believed by the companies to be routine maintenance. we are currently involved in litigation and epa investigations concerning alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position in these environmental matters but fgco is unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. for a more complete discussion see environmental matters. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, maintenance, upgrading, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. if the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. moreover, changes in environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. there are a number of initiatives to reduce ghg emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the united states are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. many states and environmental groups have also challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict. also, claims have been made alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damage from exposure to hazardous materials. recently the courts have begun to acknowledge these claims and may order us to reduce ghg emissions in the future. there is a growing consensus in the united states and globally that ghg emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. as a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. in december 2009, the epa issued an endangerment and cause or contributing finding for ghg under the caa, which will allow the epa to craft rules that directly regulate ghg. this finding triggered several regulatory actions under the caa, resulting, among other things in the regulation of ghg emissions from large stationary sources. although several bills have been introduced at the state and federal level that would compel carbon dioxide emission reductions, none have advanced through the legislature. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including co 2 , as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. in addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. until specific regulations are promulgated, the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable. at the federal level, members of congress have introduced several bills seeking to reduce emissions of ghg in the united states, and the house of representatives passed one such bill, the american clean energy and security act of 2009, on june 26, 2009. the senate continues to consider a number of measures to regulate ghg emissions. president obama has announced his administration new energy for america plan that includes, among other provisions, ensuring that 10% of electricity used in the united states comes from renewable sources by 2012, increasing to 25% by 2025, and implementing an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce ghg emissions by 80% by 2050. state activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the regional greenhouse gas initiative and western states, led by california, have coordinated efforts to develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain ghgs. 34 table of contents in september 2009, the epa finalized a national ghg emissions collection and reporting rule that required firstenergy to measure ghg emissions commencing in 2010 and begin to submit reports commencing in 2011. in december 2009, the epa released its final endangerment and cause or contribute findings for greenhouse gases under the clean air act. the epa finding concludes that concentrations of several key ghgs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as air pollutants under the caa. in may 2010, the epa finalized new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when permits under the caa nsr program would be required. the epa established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year (tpy) of carbon dioxide equivalents (co2e) effective january 2, 2011 for existing facilities under the caa psd program, but until july 1, 2011 that emissions applicability threshold will only apply if psd is triggered by non-carbon dioxide pollutants. at the international level, the kyoto protocol, signed by the u.s. in 1998 but never submitted for ratification by the u.s. senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of man-made ghg, including co 2 , emitted by developed countries by 2012. a december 2009 u.n. climate change conference in copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the kyoto protocol, but did take note of the copenhagen accord, a non-binding political agreement which recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees celsius; include a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over the next three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establish the copenhagen green climate fund to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate-related activities in developing countries. once they have become a party to the copenhagen accord, developed economies, such as the european union, japan, russia and the united states, would commit to quantified economy-wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including brazil, china and india, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic measurement, reporting and verification. firstenergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting co 2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from ghg emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. the co 2 emissions per kwh of electricity generated by firstenergy is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources, which include low or non-co 2 emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators. the epa cair requires reductions of nox and so 2 emissions in two phases (2009/2010 and 2015), ultimately capping so 2 emissions in affected states to 2.5 million tons annually and nox emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. in 2008, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia vacated cair in its entirety and directed the epa to redo its analysis from the ground up. in december 2008, the court reconsidered its prior ruling and allowed cair to remain in effect to temporarily preserve its environmental values until the epa replaces cair with a new rule consistent with the court opinion. in july 2010, the epa proposed the catr to replace cair, which remains in effect until the epa finalizes catr. catr requires reductions of nox and so 2 emissions in two phases (2012 and 2014), ultimately capping so 2 emissions in affected states to 2.6 million tons annually and nox emissions to 1.3 million tons annually. the epa proposed a preferred regulatory approach that allows trading of nox and so 2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and severely limits interstate trading of nox and so 2 emission allowances. the epa also requested comment on two alternative approaches the first eliminates interstate trading of nox and so 2 emission allowances and the second eliminates trading of nox and so 2 emission allowances in its entirety. depending on the actions taken by the epa with respect to catr, the proposed mact regulations discussed below and any future regulations that are ultimately implemented, fgco future cost of compliance may be substantial. the epa camr provides for a cap-and-trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants in two phases; initially, capping nationwide emissions of mercury at 38 tons by 2010 (as a co-benefit from implementation of so 2 and no x emission caps under the epa cair program) and 15 tons per year by 2018. the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia, at the urging of several states and environmental groups, vacated the camr, ruling that the epa failed to take the necessary steps to de-list coal-fired power plants from its hazardous air pollutant program and, therefore, could not promulgate a cap-and-trade program. on april 29, 2010, the epa issued proposed mact regulations requiring emissions reductions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from non-electric generating unit boilers, including boilers which do not use fossil fuels. if finalized, the non-electric generating unit mact regulations could also provide precedent for mact standards applicable to electric generating units. on january 20, 2011, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia denied a motion by the epa for an extension of the deadline to issue final rules, ordering the epa to issue such rules by february 21, 2011. the epa also entered into a consent decree requiring it to propose mact regulations for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units by march 16, 2011, and to finalize the regulations by november 16, 2011. depending on the action taken by the epa and on how any future regulations are ultimately implemented, fgco future cost of compliance with mact regulations may be substantial and changes to fgco operations may result. various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal clean water act and its amendments, apply to firstenergy plants. in addition, various states have water quality standards applicable to firstenergy operations. 35 table of contents the epa established new performance standards under section 316(b) of the clean water act for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants. the regulations call for reductions in impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility cooling water system). the epa has taken the position that until further rulemaking occurs; permitting authorities should continue the existing practice of applying their best professional judgment to minimize impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures. on april 1, 2009, the u.s. supreme court reversed one significant aspect of the second circuit opinion and decided that section 316(b) of the clean water act authorizes the epa to compare costs with benefits in determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at cooling water intake structures. the epa is developing a new regulation under section 316(b) of the clean water act consistent with the opinions of the supreme court and the court of appeals which have created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final performance standard. firstenergy is studying various control options and their costs and effectiveness, including pilot testing of reverse louvers in a portion of the bay shore power plant water intake channel to divert fish away from the plant water intake system. on november 19, 2010, the ohio epa issued a permit for the bay shore power plant requiring installation of reverse louvers in its entire water intake channel by april 1, 2013. depending on the results of such studies and the epa further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states exercising best professional judgment, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. also, if either the federal or state final regulations require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures (cooling towers) at any of our power plants, and if installation of such cooling towers is not technically or economically feasible, we may be forced to take actions which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976, as amended, and the toxic substances control act of 1976. certain fossil-fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the epa evaluation of the need for future regulation. in february 2009, the epa requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste. on december 30, 2009, in an advanced notice of public rulemaking, the epa said that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry. on may 4, 2010, the epa proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the epa hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. fgco future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations which may be promulgated could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the epa and implementation by the epa or the states. the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows. physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. 36 table of contents availability and cost of emission credits could materially impact our costs of operations we are required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission credits to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. these credits are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. if our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances of emission credits, we may be forced to purchase such credits on the open market, which could be costly. if we are unable to maintain sufficient emission credits to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission credits, or install costly new emissions controls. as we use the emissions credits that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. if such credits are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such credits could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. laws and regulations such as cair may, and are, being revised and as cair is being rewritten it is creating uncertainty in many areas, including but not limited to, the annual nox emission allowances beyond 2010. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs if federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. we are unable to predict what impact, if any, these changes may have on our financial condition or results of operations. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. future changes in financial accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. the sec has announced a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact that the use of ifrs by u.s. public companies would have on the u.s. securities market. given the results of the work plan, the sec expects to make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of ifrs. we are currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements and we will continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of ifrs. increases in taxes and fees. due to the revenue needs of the united states and the states and jurisdictions in which we operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies. if enacted, these changes could increase tax costs and could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 37 table of contents risks associated with financing and capital structure interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs, our ability to access capital and our requirement to post collateral we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings (all of which were eventually remarketed) of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. continuation of these disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. on february 11, 2010, p issued a report lowering firstenergy and its subsidiaries credit ratings by one notch, while maintaining its stable outlook. as a result, firstenergy may be required to post up to $48 million of collateral. moody and fitch affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of firstenergy and its subsidiaries on february 11, 2010. on september 28, 2010, p then affirmed the ratings and stable outlook of fe and its subsidiaries. on december 15, 2010, fitch revised its outlook on fe and fes from stable to negative and affirmed the rating for firstenergy and its subsidiaries. a rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold debt, inasmuch as such rating does not comment as to market price or suitability for a particular investor. the ratings assigned to our debt address the likelihood of payment of principal and interest pursuant to their terms. a rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating that may be assigned to our securities. also, we cannot predict how rating agencies may modify their evaluation process or the impact such a modification may have on our ratings. our credit ratings also govern the collateral provisions of certain contract guarantees. subsequent to the occurrence of a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade or a material adverse event, the immediate posting of cash collateral may be required. see note 15(b) of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. the level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. 38 table of contents disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our respective credit facilities. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. the strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. questions regarding the soundness of financial institutions or counterparties could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different financial institutions and counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our hedging activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a financing agreement. we also deposit cash balances in short-term investments. our ability to access our cash quickly depends on the soundness of the financial institutions in which those funds reside. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 124 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 131risk factors 27 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrant's businesses and reviews those risks with the firstenergy board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy and our subsidiaries. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to business operations risks arising from the reliability of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. 27 operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operating and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer mwh or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. fes, fgco and the ohio companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, fes, fgco and the ohio companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.4 billion for fes, $606 million for oe and an aggregate of $587 million for te and cei as co-lessees. we remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. changes in commodity prices could adversely affect our profit margins we purchase and sell electricity in the competitive wholesale and retail markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. changes in the market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to supply polr and default service obligations in the states we do business. in addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time for a variety of reasons, including: changing weather conditions or seasonality; changes in electricity usage by our customers; illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets; transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; changes in supply and demand for energy commodities; changes in power production capacity; outages at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products; changes in legislation and regulation; and natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs authorized by the ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant . extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price 28 volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens in july 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how otc derivatives are regulated. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) increased regulatory oversight of otc derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized otc derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the cftc, (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits. the law gives the cftc authority to exempt companies that participate in the swap market as end users for hedging purposes which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to us. these requirements could cause our otc transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on our liquidity due to additional capital requirements. in addition, as these reforms aim to standardize otc products it could limit the effectiveness of our hedging programs because we would have less ability to tailor otc derivatives to match the precise risk we are seeking to protect. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. the effect on our operations of this legislation will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a swap dealer, a major swap participant or a qualifying end-user through a self-identification process, based on the meaning of those terms to be established in the final rules. if we are determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to register with the cftc and execute most bilateral otc derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. this requirement could require us to commit substantial additional capital to cover increases in collateral costs associated with margin requirements of the major exchanges. we would also be required to comply with increased reporting and record-keeping requirements and follow cftc-specified business conduct standards, and adhere to position limits in a potentially broad range of energy commodities. even if we are not determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes some reporting requirements, clearing some additional transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter, and having to adhere to position limits. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease substantially. the new rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the ultimate outcome that dodd-frank will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. we also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of executing 29 the contract. although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non-performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. if counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices. in that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed operation including increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. see "potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely effect our business and financial condition" below and note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal and coal combustion residuals approximately 65% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired. historically, coal-fired generating plants face greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to emissions of so 2 and nox. in addition, the mats established coal-fired emission standards for mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals effective in april 2015, proposed coal combustion residual regulations include an option to reclassify coal ash as a hazardous waste, and there are currently a number of federal, state and international initiatives under consideration to, among other things, require reductions in ghg emissions. these legal requirements and initiatives could require substantial additional costs, extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets, decommissioning and other trust funds which then could require significant additional funding our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. the value of certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or increase the present value of liabilities can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets and the states in which we do business as a result of the epact, owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the nerc and approved by ferc as well as mandatory reliability standards and energy efficiency requirements imposed by each of the states in which we operate. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability 30 standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now mandatory and could subject us to potential civil penalties for violations which could negatively impact our business. the ferc can now impose penalties of $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by the ferc and the states, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, the rtos may direct our transmission owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet the reliability requirements of the rto or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the rto tariffs. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover for such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in miso, pjm or the ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures. the ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether independent system operators in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. disruptions in our fuel supplies or changes in our fuel needs could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities or impact financial results we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. we have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal and coal transportation needs. we may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the 31 wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions are a determinant of the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in automotive, steel and other heavy industries and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our competitive energy services segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are impacted by the same economic conditions. increases in customer electric rates and economic uncertainty may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer accounts our operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may recognize impairments of recorded goodwill or of some of our long-lived assets, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. in addition, one or more of our long-lived assets could become impaired. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments in future years would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. we face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses. effective in 2011, firstenergy elected to change its method of recognizing actuarial gains and losses of its pension and opeb plans. this change will result in the recognition of net actuarial gains or losses, without deferral, in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, may result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations under gaap. for additional information, see note 1, organization, basis of presentation and significant accounting policies of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. security breaches, including cyber security breaches, and other disruptions could compromise critical and proprietary information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary information regarding our business, employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. despite security measures we have employed with respect to this information, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and regulatory penalties. it could also disrupt our business operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. 32 acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business the possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters our business plan calls for extensive capital investments. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. this could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in completing construction projects. changes in technology may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive we primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in technologies will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. ability of certain firstenergy companies to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall firstenergy exposures. some firstenergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. also, some companies affiliated with firstenergy also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliates under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such a guarantee by the affiliated firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which make them vulnerable to negative regulatory and legislative outcomes energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, or adverse publicity associated with our nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes. our merger with ae may not achieve its intended results. we entered into the merger agreement with ae with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to the regulated business and the unregulated competitive business. our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the business and information systems of allegheny are integrated in an efficient and effective manner. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by us and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and prospects. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries for additional information. 33 risks associated with regulation complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not be set to recover its expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. regulatory changes in the electric industry, including a reversal of, discontinuance of, or impediment to the present trend toward competitive markets, could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities conduct their business. some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning to market-based pricing. in some instances, state and federal government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to impose rate cap extensions or otherwise impede market restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, proposals to re-regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued, restructured or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. such delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. if the restructuring, deregulation or re-regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re-regulate our business or the industry. the prospect of rising rates could prompt legislative or regulatory action to restrict or control such rate increases. this in turn could create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect the utilities' ability to recover their costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements increases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those increases. such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. the public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. such costs could ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increase costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks. our profitability is impacted by our affiliated companies' continued authorization to sell power at market-based rates the ferc granted certain subsidiaries authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. these orders also granted them waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements. the ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. as a condition to the orders granting the generating companies market-based rate authority, every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet the ferc's standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market-based rates. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos rto rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission 34 constraints and attendant congestion costs. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. the rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. in addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. finally, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our internal planning process. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how rtos will ultimately develop and operate, or what region they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing rto developments may have. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption. conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery timeframe in the states we operate. in new jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the sbc. currently only ohio has provisions for recovery of lost revenues. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. our results could be affected if we are unable to increase our customer's participation in our energy efficiency programs. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements we plan to retire nine older coal-fired generating plants by september 1, 2012, as a result of a comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of the mats rules that were recently finalized and other environmental requirements. we may be forced to shut down other facilities, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with certain environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of epa's nsr programs . under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing facilities to the far more stringent nsr standards applicable to new facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. we are currently involved in litigation and epa investigations concerning alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. for a more complete discussion see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emission monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. if the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or 35 new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. there are a number of initiatives to reduce ghg emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the united states and elsewhere are focusing considerable attention on carbon dioxide emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. there is a growing consensus in the united states and globally that ghg emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to ghg emissions (including co 2 ) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. as a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, including co 2 , as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. in addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. until specific regulations are issued, the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable. firstenergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of certain environmental laws or initiatives including climate change policies, but potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting co 2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from ghg emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the federal, state and international initiatives seeking to reduce emissions of ghg. we could be exposed to private rights of action seeking damages under various state and federal law theories claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. as a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations. our costs to comply with various recently adopted epa emission regulations could be substantial and result in significant changes to our operations we are required to comply with recently adopted emission regulations. the epa's cair and csapr require reductions of nox and so 2 emissions in two phases, ultimately capping so 2 and nox emissions in affected states. in july 2011, the epa finalized the csapr (which was stayed in december 2011 pending a decision on various legal challenges) to replace cair, which remains in effect until csapr becomes effective. depending on the outcome of these legal proceedings and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, mp's, fgco's and ae supply's future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to firstenergy's operations may result. additionally, on december 21, 2011, the epa finalized the mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, hydrochloric acid and various metals for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats, and other environmental laws, is substantial and led to the company's recent announcement to retire nine older coal-fired generating units. depending on how the cspar and mats are ultimately implemented, firstenergy's future cost of compliance with such regulations may be substantial and additional changes to firstenergy's operations may result. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the above-referenced epa regulations. various federal and state water quality regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures the epa established performance standards under the clean water act which requires the epa to establish performance standards for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system). in 2011, the epa proposed new regulations under the clean water act which generally require fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and calls for studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site-specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. firstenergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake system. depending on the results of such studies and the epa's further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state water 36 quality regulations listed above. compliance with any coal combustion residual regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition we are subject to various federal and state hazardous waste regulations. the epa has requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste. the epa asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry and has proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the epa's hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. firstenergy's future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be issued could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the epa and implementation by the epa or the states. compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. availability and cost of emission allowances could negatively impact our costs of operations although recent court rulings and current conditions have reduced the immediate risk of a negative impact on our operating costs, the uncertainty around caa programs and requirements continue to be a major concern. we are still required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. these allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. if our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. if we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emissions controls. as we use the emissions allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. if such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such allowances could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs if federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. we are unable to predict what impact, if any, these changes may have on our financial condition or results of operations. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc 37 we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely effect our business and financial condition as a result of the nrc's investigation of the incident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant, potential exists for the nrc to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the united states, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. for example, as a follow up to the nrc near-term task force's review and analysis of the fukushima daiichi accident, in january 2012, the nrc released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. these reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. it is also possible that the nrc could suspend or otherwise delay pending nuclear relicensing proceedings, including the davis-besse relicensing proceeding. the impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect firstenergy's financial condition or results of operations. the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. the sec announced a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact that the use of ifrs by u.s. public companies would have on the u.s. securities market and has identified several potential options to incorporate ifrs in the united states. the sec expects to announce a more specific course of action in 2012. we continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of ifrs. increases in taxes and fees may adversely effect our results of operation, financial audit and cash flow due to the revenue needs of the united states and the states and jurisdictions in which we operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. if enacted, these changes could increase tax costs and could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks associated with financing and capital structure disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our respective credit facilities. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. the strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which 38 could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs, our ability to access capital and our requirement to post collateral we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - guarantees and other assurances of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral. the soundness of financial institutions or counterparties could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different domestic and foreign financial institutions and counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our hedging activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a financing agreement. we also deposit cash balances in short-term investments. our ability to access our cash quickly depends on the soundness of the financial institutions in which those funds reside. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. the level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 128 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 128risk factors 26 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the firstenergy board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to business operations risks arising from the reliability of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, 26 the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result. fes, fg and the ohio companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, fes, fg and the ohio companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.3 billion for fes, $545 million for oe and an aggregate of $303 million for te and cei as co-lessees. we remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. changes in commodity prices including, but not limited to natural gas, could adversely affect our profit margins we purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. competition and changes in the market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to satisfy our sales obligations in the states we do business. we are exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. our ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. as the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants. the availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. in addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially for a variety of reasons, including: changing weather conditions or seasonality; changes in electricity usage by our customers caused in part by energy and efficiency mandates and demand response initiatives; illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets; transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; changes in supply and demand for energy commodities, including but not limited to, coal, natural gas and oil; changes in power production capacity; outages, deactivations and retirements at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, such as that which could result from the natural gas produced in the marcellus and utica regions, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products resulting in over or under supply; changes in legislation and regulation; and natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs authorized by ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these 27 agreements, we may be required to pay damages. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant . extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens the wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) was enacted into law in july 2010 with the primary objective of increasing oversight of the united states financial system including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. dodd-frank requires cftc and sec rulemaking to implement its provisions. although the cftc and the sec have completed some of its rulemaking, a significant amount of rulemaking remains. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. the effect on our operations of this legislation will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a swap dealer, a major swap participant or a qualifying end-user through a self-identification process. the overall impact of those regulations may be reduced but not eliminated for companies that participate in the swap market as "end-users" for hedging purposes. if we are determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to commit substantial additional capital toward collateral costs to meet the margin requirements of the major exchanges, comply with increased reporting and record-keeping requirements and follow cftc-specified business conduct standards. even if we are not determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, as an end-user, we are required to comply with additional regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease. the new rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the ultimate impact dodd-frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposures in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these 28 estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. we also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance, in which cases we could be forced to sell our power into a lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of executing the contract. although we have established risk management policies and programs, including credit policies, to evaluate counterparty credit risk, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully meet our obligations, that we will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform or that we will not experience counterparty non-performance or that we will collect for voided contracts. if counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices. in that event, our financial results could be adversely affected. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal, at the end of their licensed operation including increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. see "potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition" below and note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings, involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, dealing with our fuel and fuel transportation contracts. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have an adverse material impact on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have an adverse material impact on our financial position and operating results. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal and coal combustion residuals approximately 60% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired. historically, coal-fired generating plants face greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to emissions of so 2 and nox. in addition, the mats established coal-fired emission standards for mercury, hcl and various metals effective in april 2015, the epa proposed regulations that include an option to reclassify coal combustion residuals as a "special" hazardous waste, and there are currently a number of federal, state and international initiatives under consideration to, among other things, require reductions in ghg emissions. these legal requirements and initiatives could require substantial additional costs, extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets, decommissioning and other trust funds which then could require significant additional funding 29 our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions including, but not limited to the discount rate, inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or increase the present value of liabilities can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets and the states in which we do business owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the nerc and approved by ferc as well as mandatory reliability standards imposed by each of the states in which we operate. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc and the states, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service which are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm open access transmission tariff. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos and rtos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in pjm or ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures. ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether isos or rtos in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. disruptions in our fuel supplies or changes in our fuel needs could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities or impact financial results we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. we have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal and coal transportation needs. we may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the 30 case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, such as hurricane sandy, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. a significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased demand response initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions are a determinant of the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in automotive, steel and other heavy industries and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our competitive energy services segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions. increases in economic uncertainty may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer accounts our operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may recognize impairments of recorded goodwill or of some of our long-lived assets, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our operating subsidiaries. in addition, one or more of our long-lived assets could become impaired. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments in future years would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. we face certain human resource risks associated with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to retain or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan 31 participants and regulatory requirements. if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses. firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations under gaap. security breaches, including cyber security breaches, and other disruptions could compromise critical and proprietary information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary information regarding our business, employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. despite security measures we have employed with respect to this information, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and regulatory penalties. it could also disrupt our business operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our business the possibility that our infrastructure, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or that of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war or terrorism, could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity. any such disruption could result in a decrease in revenues and additional costs to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters our business plan calls for extensive capital investments. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. this could have negative financial impacts such as incurring losses or delays in completing construction projects. changes in technology and regulatory policies may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive we primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in technologies or changes in regulatory policies will reduce costs of new technology to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. 32 our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall firstenergy exposures. some firstenergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. also, some companies affiliated with firstenergy also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliates under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such a guarantee by the affiliated firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which make them vulnerable to negative regulatory and legislative outcomes energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, or adverse publicity associated with our nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks associated with regulation complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and pending rate cases could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by one or more of the state regulatory commissions in which our utility subsidiaries operate. also, these rates may not be set to recover the utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. regulatory changes in the electric industry, including a reversal of, discontinuance of, or impediment to the present trend toward competitive markets, could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of restructuring initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities conduct their business. some states that have deregulated generation service have experienced difficulty in transitioning to market-based pricing. in some instances, state and federal government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to impose rate cap extensions or otherwise impede market restructuring or even re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated. although we expect wholesale electricity markets to continue to be competitive, proposals to re-regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued, restructured or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. for example, the puco and ppuc have recently instituted investigations in ohio and pennsylvania, respectively, to evaluate the vitality of, and to make recommendations for improvements to, the competitive retail markets in those states. such delays, discontinuations or reversals of electricity market restructuring in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. if any restructuring, deregulation or re-regulation efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further efforts to restructure, deregulate or re-regulate our business or the industry. the prospect of rising rates could prompt legislative or regulatory action to restrict or control such rate increases. this in turn could create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect the utilities' ability to recover their costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements increases in utility rates that may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those increases. such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. the public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. such costs could ultimately reduce liquidity, as suppliers 33 tighten payment terms, and increase costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks. our profitability is impacted by our affiliated companies' continued authorization to sell power at market-based rates ferc granted certain subsidiaries authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. these orders also granted them waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. as a condition to the orders granting the generating companies market-based rate authority, every three years they are required to file a market power update to show that they continue to meet ferc's standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate whether entities qualify for market-based rates. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos rto rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets due to transmission constraints and attendant congestion costs. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been subject to price volatility. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, have also increased. the rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. in addition, we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. finally, we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by the rto rather than our internal planning process. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. because it remains unclear which companies will be participating in the various regional power markets, or how rtos will ultimately develop and operate, or what region they will cover, we cannot fully assess the impact that these power markets or other ongoing rto developments may have. energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption. conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery timeframe in the states where we operate. in new jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the sbc. currently only our ohio companies recover lost revenues. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our customer's participation in our energy efficiency programs. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements as a result of a 2012 comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of the recently finalized mats rules and other expanded environmental requirements, we deactivated sixteen older coal-fired generating units in 2012, and intend to deactivate five additional older coal-fired generating units when rmr requirements terminate. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. 34 the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. we are currently involved in litigation and epa investigations concerning alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. for a more complete discussion see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. if the cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations does increase, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to mats, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. there are a number of initiatives to reduce ghg emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the united states and elsewhere are focusing considerable attention on co 2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. there is a growing consensus in the united states and globally that ghg emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to ghg emissions (including co 2 ) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. as a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, including co 2 , as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. in addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable. firstenergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of certain environmental laws or initiatives including climate change policies, but potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting co 2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from ghg emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the federal, state and international initiatives seeking to reduce emissions of ghg. we could be exposed to private rights of action seeking damages under various state and federal law theories claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. as a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations. our costs to comply with various recently adopted epa emission regulations, including but not limited to mats, could be substantial and result in significant changes to our operations on december 21, 2011, the epa finalized the mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, hcl and various metals, for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial and contributed to the company's decision to deactivate nine older coal-fired generating plants. mats is also being challenged by numerous entities, including fg, in the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia. depending on the outcome of these legal proceedings and how mats and other epa emission regulations are ultimately implemented, mp's, fg's and ae supply's future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to firstenergy's operations may result. firstenergy's future cost of compliance with such regulations may be substantial and additional changes to firstenergy's operations may result. 35 see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the above-referenced epa regulations. various federal and state water quality regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures the epa established performance standards under the cwa for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system). in 2011, the epa proposed new regulations under the cwa which generally require fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and calls for studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site-specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. firstenergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake systems. depending on the results of such studies and the epa's further rulemaking and any final action taken by the states, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state water quality regulations listed above. compliance with any coal combustion residual regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition we are subject to various federal and state hazardous waste regulations. the epa has requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste. the epa asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry and has proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the epa's hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. firstenergy's future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be issued could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the epa and implementation by the epa or the states. compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. availability and cost of emission allowances could negatively impact our costs of operations although recent court rulings and current conditions have reduced the immediate risk of a negative impact on our operating costs, the uncertainty around caa programs and requirements continue to be a major concern. we are still required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. these allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. if our 36 operational needs require more than our allocated allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. if we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emission controls. as we use the emission allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. if such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such allowances could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs if federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including rec purchase costs, purchased power and capital expenditures. any such changes may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition as a result of the nrc's investigation of the incident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant, the nrc has begun to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the united states, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. for example, as a follow up to the nrc near-term task force's review and analysis of the fukushima daiichi accident, in january 2012, the nrc released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. the nrc has also issued orders and guidance that increases procedural and testing requirements, requires physical modifications to our plants and is expected to increase future compliance and operating costs. these reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. it is also possible that the nrc could suspend or otherwise delay pending nuclear relicensing proceedings, including the davis-besse relicensing proceeding. the impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect firstenergy's financial condition or results of operations. the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. increases in taxes and fees may adversely affect our results of operation, financial audit and cash flow due to the revenue needs of the united states and the states and jurisdictions in which we operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. if enacted, these changes could increase tax costs and could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks associated with financing and capital structure disruptions in the capital and credit markets relating to u.s. fiscal policy may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition 37 we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our respective credit facilities. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. the strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral and the ability to continue successfully implementing our retail sales strategy we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - guarantees and other assurances of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral. the stability of financial institutions or counterparties could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different domestic and foreign financial institutions and counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in connection with our hedging activities, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions and industry participants. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event that any of our lenders or counterparties are unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a financing agreement. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. our ability to access our cash quickly depends on the stability of the financial institutions in which those funds reside. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that 38 generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors regularly evaluates our common stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. the level of dividends will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 116 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 116risk factors 27 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the firstenergy board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to business operations we have taken a series of actions to reposition our asset mix to reflect a more regulated business profile focusing on growing our regulated distribution and regulated transmission operations and earnings. whether this repositioning will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect profitability and our financial condition in the future as a result of continuing weak economic conditions and depressed energy prices across our multi-state business territory, we have implemented a strategy to capitalize on growth opportunities available to our regulated operations - particularly in transmission. this strategy will involve continuing to reposition our asset mix over the next several years to reflect a more regulated business profile, and to target more than 80% of our earnings from our regulated distribution and regulated transmission segments. in connection with this repositioning, we intend to initiate distribution rate cases for certain of our distribution utility subsidiaries and grow our regulated transmission business, focusing first on atsi, which has a formula rate recovery mechanism, but also extending throughout our service area. our transmission expansion plan is designed to improve operating flexibility, increase reliability, position transmission capacity for future load growth and facilitate response to system events. the success of our repositioning strategy will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments may include: (1) whether the investments are included in pjm's regional transmission expansion plan; (2) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (3) ferc's consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (4) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. see "the business operations of our regulated transmission segment and certain activities of our competitive energy services segment are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation" below. the success of this repositioning strategy will also depend, in part, on our achieving positive outcomes in distribution rate cases we have filed or will file. adverse regulatory outcomes in the distribution rate cases (denial of cost recovery and/or imposition of conditions that create operational risk) and/or regulatory delays could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy. see state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition below. our repositioning strategy also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that the repositioning of our business to focus on our regulated distribution and regulated transmission segments will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. risks arising from the reliability of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result. 27 fes, fg and the ohio companies are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, fes, fg and the ohio companies have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.274 billion for fes and $485 million for oe and an aggregate of $267 million for te and cei as co-lessees. we remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. changes in commodity prices including, but not limited to natural gas, could adversely affect our profit margins we purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. competition and changes in the short or long-term market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors, may impact our results of operations and financial position by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to satisfy our sales obligations in the states we do business. we are exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. our ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. as the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants. the availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. in addition, the global economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. electricity and fuel prices may fluctuate substantially for a variety of reasons, including: changing weather conditions or seasonality; changes in electricity usage by our customers caused in part by energy and efficiency mandates and demand response initiatives; illiquidity and credit worthiness of participants in wholesale power and other markets; transmission congestion or transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; changes in supply and demand for energy commodities, including but not limited to, coal, natural gas and oil; changes in power production capacity; outages, deactivations and retirements at our power production facilities or those of our competitors; changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, such as that which could result from the natural gas produced in the marcellus and utica regions, lignite, coal, crude oil and refined products resulting in over or under supply; changes in legislation and regulation; and natural disasters, wars, acts of sabotage, terrorist acts, embargoes and other catastrophic events. we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based rate tariffs authorized by ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant . extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price 28 volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. see "the stability of counterparties could adversely affect us" below. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens the wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) was enacted into law in july 2010 with the primary objective of increasing oversight of the united states financial system including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. dodd-frank requires cftc and sec rulemaking to implement its provisions. although the cftc and the sec have completed some of their rulemaking, a significant amount of rulemaking remains. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. the effect on our operations of this legislation will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a swap dealer, a major swap participant or a qualifying end-user through a self-identification process. the overall impact of those regulations may be reduced but not eliminated for companies that participate in the swap market as "end-users" for hedging purposes. if we are determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to commit substantial additional capital toward collateral costs to meet the margin requirements of the major exchanges, comply with increased reporting and record-keeping requirements and follow cftc-specified business conduct standards. even if we are not determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, as an end-user, we are required to comply with additional regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease. the new rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the ultimate impact dodd-frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. we also face credit risks from parties with whom we contract who could default in their performance. see "the stability of counterparties could adversely affect us" below. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition 29 we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life, resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations, including any incidents of unplanned radiological release, or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal at the end of their licensed operation and increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of completion. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. see "potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition" below and note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements. any one of these risks relating to our nuclear generation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings, involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, such proceedings relating to our fuel and fuel transportation contracts. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal and coal combustion residuals approximately 55% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired. historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to emissions of so 2 and nox than other types of generation facilities. the mats established coal-fired emission standards for mercury, pm and hcl, effective in april 2015. in addition, the epa has proposed regulations that include an option to reclassify coal combustion residuals as a "special" hazardous waste. there are also a number of federal, state and international initiatives under consideration to, among other things, require reductions in ghg emissions, including a september 20, 2013, epa proposed new source performance standard that would require partial carbon capture and storage for newly constructed coal-fired generating plants. on june 25, 2013, a presidential memorandum further directed the epa to propose by june 1, 2014 and complete by june 1, 2015, ghg emission standards for existing fossil fuel generating units. these legal requirements and initiatives could impose substantial additional costs, extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets, decommissioning and other trust funds, which then could require significant additional funding our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pensions and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. 30 capital market conditions that generate investment losses or increase the present value of liabilities can negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1.0 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm open access transmission tariff. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos and rtos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in pjm or ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures that we may be unable to recover fully or at all. ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether isos or rtos in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. disruptions in our fuel supplies or changes in our fuel needs could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities or impact financial results we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. we have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal and coal transportation needs, some of which run through 2032 and certain of which relate to deactivated plants. we have asserted force majeure defenses for delivery shortfalls under certain agreements and we are in discussions with the applicable counterparties. we can provide no assurance that these agreements will be favorably resolved with respect to certain unresolved aspects of the agreements. if we fail to reach a resolution with applicable counterparties and if it were ultimately determined that, contrary to our belief, the force majeure provision or other defenses do not excuse delivery shortfalls, the results of operations and financial condition of both firstenergy and fes could be materially adversely impacted. in addition, we may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 31 temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, such as hurricane sandy, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. a significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased demand response initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions are a determinant of the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our competitive energy services segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions. increases in economic uncertainty may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer accounts our operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories and those conditions could negatively impact the rate of delinquent customer accounts and our collections of accounts receivable which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may recognize impairments of recorded goodwill or of some of our long-lived assets, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations goodwill could become impaired at one or more of our reportable segments. in addition, one or more of our long-lived assets could become impaired. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments in future years would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. further, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions and while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any existing labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to retain or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment 32 returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses. firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations under gaap. security breaches, including cybersecurity breaches, and other disruptions could compromise our business operations and critical and proprietary information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. additionally, we use and are dependent upon information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. despite security measures we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to attacks by hackers or terrorists as a result of the rise in the sophistication and volume of cyber attacks. also, our information and information technology systems may be breached due to viruses, human error, malfeasance or other malfunctions and disruptions. any such attack or breach could: (i) compromise our generation, transmission and distribution services, development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (ii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iii) corrupt data; or (iv) result in unauthorized access to the information stored on our networks, including personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life.. although firstenergy carries property and casualty insurance that may mitigate the potential impact of a cyber incident, any such attack, breach, access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, increased regulation, increased protection costs for enhanced cyber security systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our disclosure controls and procedures ineffective, all of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including nuclear and other power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or a cyber or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including additional costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our recently announced transmission expansion program. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a 33 construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. changes in technology and regulatory policies may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive we primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in technologies will reduce costs of new technology and/or changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that make these new technologies more competitive with central station electricity production. such advances in technologies and/or changes in regulatory policy could decrease sales and revenues from our existing generation assets, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. to the extent that new generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning. we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall firstenergy exposures. some firstenergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. also, some companies affiliated with firstenergy also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliates under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such a guarantee by the affiliated firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance certain firstenergy companies have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. firstenergy is a guarantor under a syndicated three-year senior secured term loan facility due october 18, 2015, under which global holding borrowed $350 million in connection with the repayment of a prior term loan facility under which signal peak and global rail were borrowers. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill the obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which make them vulnerable to negative regulatory and legislative outcomes energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, or adverse publicity associated with our nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks associated with regulation to the extent our policies to control costs designed to mitigate low energy, capacity and market prices are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition the may 2013 pjm rpm auction for 2016/2017 capacity produced prices in the region served by our competitive generation segment that were lower than expected. this result may be a broader indication of an underlying supply/demand imbalance that continues to affect power producers in this region, adding pressure on already depressed energy prices and potentially pushing any significant power price recovery further into the future than we, or the industry at large, previously expected. as we experience these trends, as part of our ongoing comprehensive review of competitive operations related to, among other things, plant economics, since 2012 we have deactivated more than 5,000 mw of competitive generation. to the extent our policies designed to control our 34 costs, or other facets of our financial plan, are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and pending rate cases could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by the ferc or by one or more of the state regulatory commissions in which our utility subsidiaries operate. also, these rates may not be set to recover the utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments, expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. each of the utilities' retail rates is set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in ohio by the puco, in new jersey by the njbpu, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated tax, across the firstenergy utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs (including for example accelerated deployment of smart meters); and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities, including the pending jcp&amp;l base rate case and the anticipated wvpsc base rate case, will be granted in whole or in part, or as to when it will receive a decision on such requests. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, and reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery resulting from jcp&amp;l's pending base rate case or in association with the generic storm proceeding before the njbpu may impose risks on our operations and may negatively impact our credit rating, results of operations and financial condition our distribution rates in new jersey are set by the njbpu through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, jcp&amp;l may not be able to recover all of its increased, unexpected or necessary costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. pursuant to the written order of the njbpu dated july 31, 2012, requiring jcp&amp;l to file a base rate case to determine whether its rates are just and reasonable, jcp&amp;l filed its base rate case petition on november 30, 2012. in a subsequent filing, jcp&amp;l updated its petition to request recovery for the impact of hurricane sandy. however, the njbpu in its written order dated may 31, 2013, held that the 2011 major storm costs would be reviewed expeditiously in a generic proceeding with the goal of maintaining the base rate case schedule established by the alj where recovery of such costs would be addressed, and the 2012 major storm costs would be reviewed in the generic proceeding and the recovery of such costs would be considered through a phase ii in the existing base rate case or through another appropriate method to be determined at the conclusion of the generic proceeding. we can provide no assurance that jcp&amp;l's request to increase rates in its pending base rate case, or any future proceeding, will be granted in whole or in part, or when it will receive a decision on such requests from the njbpu. any denial of, or delay in, its request to increase rates in the pending base rate case or to recover costs associated with hurricane sandy and other 2011 or 2012 major storms could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. any denial of, or delay in, the request to increase rates embodied in an order from the njbpu resulting from the base rate case could restrict it from fully recovering its 35 costs of service, may impose risks on our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. also, the uncertainty regarding jcp&amp;l's pending rate case and generic storm proceedings have already led to adverse credit rating agency action, and could lead to further adverse rating agency actions in the future. the conditions imposed by the wvpsc on mp's completion of its generation resource transaction and the pending appeal of the related wvpsc approval order could present challenges for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of that transaction the generation resource transaction was completed on october 9, 2013, subject to certain conditions imposed by the wvpsc in its approval order issued on october 7, 2013. one of those conditions permits a return on, and return of, an acquisition adjustment only to the extent that 50% of the net margins from off-system transactions from the additional harrison capacity acquired by mp will support that return requirement. mp's ability to satisfy this condition may depend on a variety of factors, including the future operating performance of the harrison power station, commodity prices, general economic conditions and financial and business conditions, which may be subject, in part, to factors beyond mp's and firstenergy's control. any of these factors could adversely affect mp's ability to satisfy this condition and could have an adverse effect on mp's and firstenergy's financial condition and results of operations. in addition, on november 6, 2013, the wvcag filed a petition with the supreme court of appeals of west virginia appealing the wvpsc's october 7, 2013 order approving the generation resource transaction. mp and firstenergy intend to defend vigorously the approval order before the court, but are unable to predict the effect of any unfavorable outcome that might result from this appeal, but such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on mp's and firstenergy's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. regulatory changes in the electric industry could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of regulatory initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities and competitive energy providers conduct their business. ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. similarly, the puco and ppuc have in recent years instituted investigations in ohio and pennsylvania, respectively, to evaluate the vitality of, and to make recommendations for improvements to, the competitive retail markets in those states. if any regulatory efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further regulatory efforts to modify our business or the industry. the business operations of our regulated transmission segment and certain activities of our competitive energy services segment are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation ferc granted certain firstenergy generating subsidiaries authority to sell electricity at market-based rates. these orders also granted waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc ' orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve to ferc the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, or create barriers to entry, or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. in the event that one or more of firstenergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected firstenergy subsidiary(ies) would be required to file with ferc for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings. in addition, such subsidiary(ies) would no longer enjoy the flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, our strategy of investing in transmission could be curtailed. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact firstenergy ' financial condition. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos rto rules could affect our ability to sell power produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets the rules governing the various regional power markets may change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. in some cases these changes are contrary to our interests and adverse to our financial returns. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been volatile and rto rules may contribute to this volatility. all of our generating assets currently participate only in pjm, which conducts rpm auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. the prices our generating companies can charge for their capacity are determined by the results of the pjm auctions, which are impacted by the supply and demand of capacity resources and load within pjm and also may be impacted by transmission 36 system constraints and pjm rules relating to bidding for demand response, energy efficiency resources, and imports, among others. auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. we cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. we incur fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and we are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, we may suffer financial harm. we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings currently taking place at the ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption. conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. in new jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the sbc. currently only our ohio companies recover lost revenues. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our customer's participation in our energy efficiency programs. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements as a result of a comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of the mats rules and other expanded environmental requirements, we deactivated twenty-one (21) older coal-fired generating units in 2012 and 2013, and intend to deactivate five (5) additional older coal-fired generating units when rmr requirements terminate. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. we are currently involved in litigation and epa investigations concerning alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. for a more complete discussion see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. on december 21, 2011, the epa finalized the mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, pm and hcl, for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial and contributed to the company's decision to deactivate twenty-one (21) older coal-fired generating units in 2012 and 2013 and plans to deactivate five (5) additional coal-fired generating units when rmr requirements terminate. mats is also being challenged by numerous entities, including fg, in the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit. depending on the outcome of these legal proceedings and how mats and other epa regulations are ultimately implemented, mp's, fg's and ae supply's future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to firstenergy's operations may result. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to mats, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of generation, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. there are a number of initiatives to reduce ghg emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the united states and elsewhere are focusing considerable attention on co 2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. there is a growing consensus in the united states and globally that ghg emissions are a major cause of global warming and that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to ghg emissions (including co 2 ) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. as a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, including co 2 , as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. in addition, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our emissions could require extensive mitigation efforts and, in the case of carbon dioxide legislation, would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is not determinable, but potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting co 2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from ghg emissions could require significant capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the above-referenced epa regulations and the federal, state and international initiatives seeking to reduce ghg emissions. we could be exposed to private rights of action seeking damages under various state and federal law theories claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. as a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations. various federal and state water regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures the epa has proposed regulatory changes, specifically, eight treatment options for waste water discharge from electric power plants, of which four are "preferred" by the agency. the preferred options range from more stringent chemical and biological treatment requirements to zero discharge requirements and the epa is scheduled to finalize these regulatory changes in may 2014. the epa has also established performance standards under the cwa for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system). in 2011, the epa proposed new regulations under the cwa which generally require fish impingement to be reduced to a 12% annual average and calls for studies to be conducted at the majority of our existing generating facilities to assist permitting authorities to determine whether and what site-specific controls, if any, would be required to reduce entrainment of aquatic life. firstenergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake systems. depending on the results of such studies and the epa's further rulemaking and any final action taken by the 38 states, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state water quality regulations listed above. compliance with any coal combustion residual regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition we are subject to various federal and state solid, non-hazardous and hazardous waste regulations. the epa has requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste. the epa asserted that the large volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk to the industry and has proposed two options for additional regulation of coal combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the epa's hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management, beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. firstenergy's future cost of compliance with any coal combustion residuals regulations that may be issued could be substantial and would depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the epa and implementation by the epa or the states. compliance with those regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. availability and cost of emission allowances could negatively impact our costs of operations although recent court rulings and current conditions have reduced the immediate risk of a negative impact on our operating costs, the uncertainty around caa programs and requirements continue to be a major concern. we are still required to maintain, either by allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. these allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws. if our operational needs require more than our allocated allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. if we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emission controls. as we use the emission allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. if such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, the purchase of such allowances could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs if federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation would not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including 39 rec purchase costs, purchased power and capital expenditures. any such changes may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition as a result of the nrc's investigation of the incident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant, the nrc has begun to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the united states, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. for example, as a follow up to the nrc near-term task force's review and analysis of the fukushima daiichi accident, in january 2012, the nrc released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. the nrc has also issued orders and guidance that increases procedural and testing requirements, requires physical modifications to our plants and is expected to increase future compliance and operating costs. these reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. it is also possible that the nrc could suspend or otherwise delay pending nuclear relicensing proceedings, including the davis-besse relicensing proceeding. the impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect firstenergy's financial condition or results of operations. the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. changes in local, state or federal tax laws applicable to us or adverse audit results or tax rulings, and any resulting increases in taxes and fees, may adversely affect our results of operation, financial audit and cash flow firstenergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. we exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by firstenergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks associated with financing and capital structure volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. volatility in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions 40 that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. the strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral and the ability to continue successfully implementing our retail sales strategy we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. see note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - guarantees and other assurances of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral. the stability of counterparties could adversely affect us we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure all or part of their obligations to firstenergy or its subsidiaries. if the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. in such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition 41 we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid and that the recent reduction in our dividend, or any future reductions declared by our board, will have a positive impact on our results of operations on january 21, 2014, in connection with actions taken to refocus our business strategy as a result of continuing weak economic conditions and depressed energy prices, our board of directors declared a revised quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share of outstanding common stock, which equates to an indicated annual dividend of $1.44 per share and is lower than the $0.55 per share per quarter ($2.20 per share annually) that firstenergy previously paid since 2008. our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. additionally, we cannot assure common shareholders that the recent reduction, or any future reduction, in our dividend will be successful in strengthening our results of operations and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 114 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 114risk factors, (b) item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and (c) other factors discussed herein and in other filings with the sec by the registrants. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this form 10-k. none of the registrants undertake any obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. table of contents page glossary of terms iii part i. item 1. business 1 the company 1 utility regulation 3 state regulation 3 federal regulation 3 regulatory accounting 4 maryland regulatory matters 4 new jersey regulatory matters 5 ohio regulatory matters 6 pennsylvania regulatory matters 7 west virginia regulatory matters 8 ferc matters 8 capital requirements 12 nuclear operating licenses 15 nuclear regulation 15 nuclear insurance 15 environmental matters 16 fuel supply 19 system demand 20 supply plan 21 regional reliability 21 competition 21 seasonality 21 research and development 21 executive officers 23 employees 24 firstenergy web site and other social media sites and applications 24 item 1a. risk factors 25 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the firstenergy board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to business operations we have taken a series of actions to reposition our asset mix to reflect a more regulated business profile focusing on growing our regulated distribution and regulated transmission operations and earnings. whether this repositioning will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect profitability and our financial condition in the future as a result of continuing weak economic conditions and depressed energy prices across our multi-state business territory, we have implemented a strategy to capitalize on investment opportunities available to our regulated operations - particularly in transmission. this strategy will involve continuing to reposition our asset mix over the next several years to reflect a more regulated business profile, and to target more than 80% of our earnings from our regulated distribution and regulated transmission segments. in connection with this repositioning, we initiated distribution rate cases for certain of our distribution utility subsidiaries and announced plans to grow our regulated transmission business, focusing first on atsi and extending throughout our service area over time. the success of our repositioning strategy will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments may include: (1) whether the investments are included in pjm's rtep; (2) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (3) ferc's evolving policies with respect to the base roe component of transmission rates, as articulated in ferc's recent opinion no. 531; (4) consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (5) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. the success of this repositioning strategy will also depend, in part, on our achieving positive outcomes in distribution rate cases and transmission rate filings we have filed or will file. any denial of, or delay in, any distribution or transmission rate request could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risk on operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy. our repositioning strategy also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that the repositioning of our business to focus on our regulated distribution and regulated transmission segments will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. we are subject to risks arising from the operation of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result. fes, fg, oe and te are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, fes, fg, oe and te have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.2 billion for fes, $429 million for oe and $231 million for te. in addition, new and certain existing environmental requirements may force us to shut down such generating facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply 25 with such environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. we remain obligated to provide safe and reliable service to customers within our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. failure to provide safe and reliable service and failure to meet regulatory reliability standards due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, equipment failure and weather, could harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. changes in commodity prices including, but not limited to natural gas, could adversely affect our profit margins we purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. competition and changes in the short or long-term market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors including, but not limited to, weather, energy efficiency mandates, dr initiatives and deactivations and retirements at power production facilities, may impact our results of operations and financial position by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to satisfy our sales obligations in the states in which we do business. we are exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. our ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. as the price of natural gas falls, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may need to curtail operation of marginal plants. the availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. in addition, deterioration or weakness in the global economy has led to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which has lowered fossil fuel prices and may put downward pressure on electricity prices. we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with marketing and selling products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based rate tariffs authorized by ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages, including significant new penalties if pjm's market reforming capacity performance proposal is accepted as filed. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant . extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens the wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) was enacted into law in july 2010 with the primary objective of increasing oversight of the united states financial system including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. dodd-frank requires cftc and sec rulemaking to implement its provisions. although the cftc and the sec have completed some of their rulemaking, a significant amount of rulemaking remains. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. the effect on our operations of this legislation will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a swap dealer, a major swap participant or a qualifying end-user through a self-identification process. the overall impact of those regulations may be reduced but not eliminated for companies that participate in the swap market as "end-users" for hedging purposes. if we are determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, we will be required to commit substantial additional capital toward collateral costs to meet 26 the margin requirements of the major exchanges, comply with increased reporting and record-keeping requirements and follow cftc-specified business conduct standards. even if we are not determined to be a swap dealer or a major swap participant, as an end-user, we are required to comply with additional regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease. the new rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the ultimate impact dodd-frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature risk related, and we could suffer economic losses despite such policies we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the creditworthiness of counterparties, future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life, resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations, including any incidents of unplanned radiological release, or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal at the end of their licensed operation and increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of decommissioning. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. see "potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition" below and note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements. any one of these risks relating to our nuclear generation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings, involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 27 we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, such proceedings relating to our fuel and fuel transportation contracts. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal and ccrs approximately 55% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired. historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including ghgs, and ccr disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. these legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets, decommissioning and other trust funds, which then could require significant additional funding our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pension and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the pension, decommissioning and other trust funds, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the market functions appropriately. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm tariff. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos and rtos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. 28 demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in pjm or ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures that we may be unable to recover fully or at all. ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether isos or rtos in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. disruptions in our fuel supplies or changes in our fuel needs could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities or impact financial results we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. we have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal supply and transportation needs, some of which run through 2028 and certain of which relate to deactivated plants. we have asserted force majeure defenses for delivery shortfalls under certain agreements and are in discussions with the applicable counterparties. in one coal supply agreement, firstenergy, through a subsidiary, has also asserted termination rights effective in 2015 and is in litigation with the counterparty. we can provide no assurance that these discussions will be favorably resolved with respect to certain unresolved aspects of the agreements or that the litigation will be favorably resolved. if we fail to reach a resolution with the applicable counterparties and if it were ultimately determined that, contrary to our belief, the force majeure provision or other defenses, do not excuse or otherwise mitigate the delivery shortfalls, or if the litigation were resolved unfavorably, the results of operations and financial condition of both firstenergy and fes could be materially adversely impacted. in addition, we may from time to time enter into new contracts, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. a significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased dr initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our ces segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions. we may recognize impairments of recorded goodwill or of some of our long-lived assets, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations 29 we had approximately $6.4 billion of recorded goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2014 , of which $800 million is attributable to our ces segment. recorded goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. key assumptions incorporated in the estimated cash flows used for the impairment analysis requiring significant management judgment include: discount rates, growth rates, future energy and capacity pricing, projected operating income, changes in working capital, projected capital expenditures, projected funding of pension plans, expected results of future rate proceedings, the impact of pending carbon and other environmental legislation and terminal multiples. although the annual goodwill impairment test in 2014 resulted in a conclusion that goodwill is not impaired, the fair value of the ces reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 10%, impacted by near term weak economic conditions and low energy and capacity prices. we are unable to predict whether future impairment charges to goodwill may be necessary. in addition, we also review our long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. we are unable to predict whether impairment charges on one or more of our long-lived assets may occur in the future. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments to recorded goodwill or any long-lived assets in the future would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. a determination that recorded goodwill or any long-lived assets are deemed to be impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and total capitalization. we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. further, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions and while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to retain or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly increased. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses. firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations. security breaches, including cybersecurity breaches, and other disruptions could compromise our business operations and critical and proprietary information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. additionally, we use and are dependent upon information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. despite security measures we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to attacks by hackers or terrorists as a result of the rise in the sophistication and volume of cyber attacks. also, our information and information technology systems may be breached due to viruses, human error, malfeasance or other malfunctions and disruptions. any such attack or breach could: (i) compromise our generation, transmission and distribution services, development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (ii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iii) corrupt data; or (iv) result in unauthorized access to the information stored on our networks, including, company proprietary information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result 30 in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such attack, breach, access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, increased regulation, increased protection costs for enhanced cyber security systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our disclosure controls and procedures ineffective, all of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including nuclear and other power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or a cyber or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including additional costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our energizing the future transmission expansion program. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. changes in technology and regulatory policies may significantly affect our generation business by making our generating facilities less competitive we primarily generate electricity at large central facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in technologies will reduce costs of new technology and/or changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that make these new technologies more competitive with central station electricity production. such advances in technologies and/or changes in regulatory policy could decrease sales and revenues from our existing generation assets, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. to the extent that new generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning. we may acquire assets that could present unanticipated issues for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions asset acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: management attention; integration with existing assets; difficulty in evaluating the requirements associated with the assets prior to acquisition, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control; and an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits from any such asset acquisition. 31 certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall firstenergy exposures. some firstenergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. certain firstenergy companies also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliate companies under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such a guarantee by such firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance certain firstenergy companies have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. fe is a guarantor under a syndicated three-year senior secured term loan facility due october 18, 2015, under which global holding borrowed $350 million in connection with the repayment of a prior term loan facility under which signal peak and global rail were borrowers. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill the obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which make them vulnerable to negative regulatory and legislative outcomes energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, or adverse publicity associated with our nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks associated with regulation to the extent our policies to control costs designed to mitigate low energy, capacity and market prices are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition the may 2013 pjm rpm auction for the 2016/2017 delivery year capacity produced prices in the region served by our competitive generation segment that were lower than expected, and the may 2014 pjm rpm auction for the 2017/2018 delivery year capacity reflected some, but still less than expected, improvement. these results may be a broader indication of an underlying supply/demand imbalance that continues to affect power producers in this region, adding pressure on already depressed energy prices and potentially pushing any significant power price recovery further into the future than we, or the industry at large, previously expected. since 2012, as part of our ongoing comprehensive review of competitive operations related to, among other things, plant economics, we have deactivated more than 5,000 mw of competitive generation. to the extent our policies designed to control our costs, or other facets of our financial plan, are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. to address problems in the capacity market, pjm in december 2014 proposed significant market reforms, including its capacity performance proposal. to the extent pjm's capacity performance proposal does not work as intended, or to the extent that the proposed changes to the pjm tariff are not accepted, energy and capacity market prices may remain volatile and low. complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and pending rate cases could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by ferc or by one or more of the state regulatory commissions in which our utility subsidiaries operate. also, these rates may not be set to recover such utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full 32 recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. in addition, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to u.s. laws, executive orders, and regulations administered and enforced by the u.s. department of treasury and the department of justice restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). if any of our existing or future operations or investments, including our joint venture investment in signal peak or our continued procurement of uranium from existing suppliers, are subsequently determined to involve such prohibited parties we could be in violation of certain covenants in our financing documents and unless we cease or modify such dealings, we could also be in violation of such u.s. laws, executive orders and sanctions regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. each of the utilities' retail rates is set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in ohio by the puco, in new jersey by the njbpu, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the firstenergy utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs (including for example accelerated deployment of smart meters); and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities, including the pending rate cases in new jersey and pennsylvania, and the pending esp iv in ohio discussed below will be granted in whole or in part. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, and reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery resulting from jcp&amp;l's pending base rate case or in association with the generic storm proceeding before the njbpu may impose risks on our operations and may negatively impact our credit rating, results of operations and financial condition our distribution rates in new jersey are set by the njbpu through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, jcp&amp;l may not be able to recover all of its increased, unexpected or necessary costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. we can provide no assurance that jcp&amp;l's request to increase rates in its pending base rate case, or any future proceeding, will be granted in whole or in part, or when it will receive a decision on such requests from the njbpu. any denial of, or delay in, its request to increase rates in the pending base rate case or any continued delay in its request to recover costs associated with hurricane sandy and other 2011 or 2012 major storms could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. any denial of, or delay in, the request to increase rates embodied in an order from the njbpu resulting from the base rate case could restrict it from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. also, the uncertainty regarding jcp&amp;l's pending rate case and generic storm proceedings have already led to adverse credit rating agency action, and could lead to further adverse rating agency actions in the future. any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery resulting from oe's, cei's and te's pending esp iv before the puco may impose risks on our operations and may negatively impact our credit rating, results of operations and financial condition esps may be filed in ohio as a means to establish the mechanism by which generation rates are set and may also include other provisions related to distribution and transmission service, all of which is subject to the approval of the puco. as a result, oe, cei, and te may not be authorized to implement all of the rates, riders, and mechanisms for which they are seeking approval, or there may be a delay in such authorization. oe, cei, and te filed their proposed esp iv entitled powering ohio's progress on august 4, 2014, which included proposals to continue their rider dcr mechanism, base distribution rate freeze, competitive bidding process for non-shopping load, and to undertake and implement an economic stability program provision, which includes a 15-year purchase power agreement with fes for the output of sammis, davis-besse and fes' share of ovec, designed to provide customers retail rate stability against market prices over a longer term. 33 there can be no assurance that oe's, cei's, and te's request for approval of the esp iv: powering ohio's progress will be granted in whole or in part. oe, cei, and te expect to receive a decision on their esp iv in the second quarter of 2015. any denial of, or delay in, the approval of the esp iv could negatively impact the results of operations and financial conditions of fe and fes. any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery resulting from the pennsylvania companies' pending rate cases before the ppuc, may impose risks on our operations and may negatively impact our credit rating, results of operations and financial condition our distribution rates in pennsylvania are set by the ppuc through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, the pennsylvania companies may not be able to recover all of their increased, unexpected or necessary costs and, even if they are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time they incur such costs and the time they are allowed to recover them. there can be no assurance that the pennsylvania companies' joint petitions for settlement, which settled all but one issue in the rate proceedings, will be approved by ppuc. any denial of, or delay in, their request to increase rates in the pending base rate cases or to recover their costs could negatively impact the results of operations and financial condition of fe. federal rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact our financial condition. on october 31, 2014, atsi filed a proposal with ferc to change the structure of its formula rate. the proposed change requested to move from an "historical looking" approach, where transmission rates reflect actual costs for the prior year, to a "forward looking" approach, where transmission rates would be based on the estimated costs for the coming year, with an annual true up. ferc accepted the formula rate proposal effective january 1, 2015, but also set the rate for hearing and settlement proceedings subject to refund. settlement discussions under a ferc-appointed settlement judge are ongoing. ferc also initiated an inquiry into atsi's roe and certain other matters, also subject to refund. a procedural schedule for the roe hearing has not yet been established. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings or the impact on atsi's recovery mechanism and an adverse result could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and business conditions. regulatory changes in the electric industry could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of regulatory initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities and competitive energy providers conduct their business. ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. if any regulatory efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further regulatory efforts to modify our business or the industry. the business operations of our regulated transmission segment and certain activities of our ces segment are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation ferc granted certain firstenergy generating subsidiaries authority to sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services at market-based rates. these orders also granted waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, for certain of these subsidiaries, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve with ferc the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, or create barriers to entry, or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. in the event that one or more of firstenergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected firstenergy subsidiary(ies) would be required to file with ferc for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings. in addition, such subsidiary(ies) would no longer enjoy the flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos rto rules could affect our ability to sell energy and capacity produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets. the rules governing the various regional power markets may change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. in some cases these changes are contrary to our interests and adverse to our financial returns. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been volatile and rto rules may contribute to this volatility. 34 all of our generating assets currently participate in pjm, which conducts rpm auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. the prices our generating companies can charge for their capacity are determined by the results of the pjm auctions, which are impacted by the supply and demand of capacity resources and load within pjm and also may be impacted by transmission system constraints and pjm rules relating to bidding for dr, energy efficiency resources, and imports, among others. auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. to the extent pjm's december 2014 capacity performance proposal does not work as intended or proposed changes to the pjm tariff are not accepted, energy and capacity market prices may remain volatile and low. we cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. we incur fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be significantly impacted. we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings before ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption. conservation programs could impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation resulted in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. in new jersey, we recover the costs for energy efficiency programs through the sbc. currently, only our ohio companies recover lost distribution revenues. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our customer's participation in our energy efficiency programs. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. our business and activities are subject to extensive environmental requirements and could be adversely affected by such requirements as a result of a comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of the mats and other expanded environmental requirements, we deactivated twenty-one (21) older coal-fired generating units in 2012 and 2013, and as previously announced, we intend to deactivate five (5) additional older coal-fired generating units in 2015. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are uneconomical. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. epa has investigated alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation 35 facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. for a more complete discussion see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. on december 21, 2011, the epa finalized the mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, pm and hcl, for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial. mats is also being challenged by numerous entities before the u.s. supreme court. depending on the outcome of these legal proceedings and how mats and other epa regulations are ultimately implemented, mp's, fg's and ae supply's future cost of compliance may be substantial and changes to firstenergy's operations may result. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to epa proposed ghg emission and water discharge regulations, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of certain of our generation facilities, we may not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. there are a number of initiatives to reduce ghg emissions under consideration at the federal, state and international level. environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some agencies in the united states and elsewhere are focusing considerable attention on co 2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. there is a growing consensus in the united states and globally that ghg emissions are a major cause of global warming and epa has proposed regulations at the federal level to reduce ghg emissions (including co 2 ) from electric generating facilities. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, any legal obligation that would require us to substantially reduce our ghg emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flow and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the above-referenced epa regulations and the federal, state and international initiatives seeking to reduce ghg emissions. we could be exposed to private rights of action seeking damages under various state and federal law theories claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. as a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations. various federal and state water regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures the epa has proposed regulatory changes, specifically, eight treatment options for waste water discharge from electric power plants, of which four are "preferred" by the agency. the preferred options range from more stringent chemical and biological treatment requirements to zero discharge requirements and the epa is scheduled to finalize these regulatory changes in september 2015. the epa has also established performance standards under the cwa for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, reducing impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) to a 12% annual average and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system) using site-specific controls based on studies to be submitted to permitting authorities. firstenergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake systems. depending on the results of such studies and implementation of impingement and entrainment performance standards by permitting authorities, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state water quality regulations listed above. 36 compliance with any ccr regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition as an owner and operator of coal-fired generating units, we are subject to various federal and state solid, non-hazardous and hazardous waste regulations. on december 19, 2014, epa finalized regulations for ccrs (non-hazardous waste), establishing national standards for the safe disposal of ccrs from electric generating plants. depending on how the final rules are ultimately implemented, the future costs of compliance with such ccr regulations may require material capital expenditures. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. we are or may be subject to costs of remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where other hazardous substances have been deposited and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including rec purchase costs, purchased power and capital expenditures. such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition as a result of the nrc's investigation of the incident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant, the nrc has begun to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the united states, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. for example, as a follow up to the nrc near-term task force's review and analysis of the fukushima daiichi accident, in january 2012, the nrc released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. the nrc has also issued orders and guidance that increases procedural and testing requirements, requires physical modifications to our plants and is expected to increase future compliance and operating costs. these reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. it is also possible that the nrc could suspend or otherwise delay pending nuclear relicensing proceedings, including the davis-besse relicensing proceeding. the impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect firstenergy's financial condition or results of operations. 37 the physical risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. changes in local, state or federal tax laws applicable to us or adverse audit results or tax rulings, and any resulting increases in taxes and fees, may adversely affect our results of operation, financial audit and cash flow firstenergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. we exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by firstenergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks associated with financing and capital structure volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. volatility in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. the strength and depth of competition in energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral and the ability to continue successfully implementing our retail sales strategy we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and 38 fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that our risk management processes were not established to address. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. see note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - guarantees and other assurances of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements for more information associated with a credit ratings downgrade leading to the posting of cash collateral. the stability of counterparties could adversely affect us we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure all or part of their obligations to firstenergy or its subsidiaries. if the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. in such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices. although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid and that the recent reduction in our dividend, or any future reductions declared by our board, will have a positive impact on our results of operations on january 21, 2014, in connection with actions taken to refocus our business strategy as a result of continuing weak economic conditions and depressed energy prices, our board of directors declared a revised quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share of outstanding common stock, which equates to an indicated annual dividend of $1.44 per share and is lower than the $0.55 per share per quarter ($2.20 per share annually) that firstenergy previously paid since 2008. our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. additionally, we cannot assure common shareholders that the recent reduction, or any future reduction, in our dividend will be successful in strengthening our results of operations and liquidity. 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 105 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 105risk factors, (b) item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and (c) other factors discussed herein and in other filings with the sec by the registrants. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this form 10-k. neither of the registrants undertake any obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. table of contents page glossary of terms iii part i. item 1. business 1 the company 1 utility regulation 3 state regulation 3 federal regulation 3 regulatory accounting 4 maryland regulatory matters 4 new jersey regulatory matters 5 ohio regulatory matters 6 pennsylvania regulatory matters 7 west virginia regulatory matters 8 ferc matters 9 capital requirements 12 nuclear operating licenses 15 nuclear regulation 15 nuclear insurance 15 environmental matters 16 fuel supply 19 system demand 20 supply plan 21 regional reliability 21 competition 21 seasonality 21 research and development 21 executive officers 23 employees 24 firstenergy web site and other social media sites and applications 24 item 1a. risk factors 26 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the firstenergy board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to business operations we have taken a series of actions to focus our growth on our regulated operations. whether this will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect profitability and our financial condition in the future we focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our regulated operations - particularly in transmission - as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. the success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments may include: (1) whether the investments are included in pjm's rtep; (2) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (3) ferc's evolving policies with respect to the base roe component of transmission rates, as articulated in ferc's opinion no. 531 and related orders; (4) consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (5) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. the success of these efforts will also depend, in part, on our achieving positive outcomes in the esp iv before the puco and any future distribution rate cases and transmission rate filings. any denial of, or delay in, the approval of esp iv or any future distribution or transmission rate request could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risk on operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy. in addition, ces' continued operation of the generating units included in the ppa portion of the esp iv is uncertain. our efforts also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that our efforts to reflect a more regulated business profile will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our future profitability and financial condition. we are subject to risks arising from the operation of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result. fes, fg, oe and te are exposed to losses under their applicable sale-leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. although we believe these types of events are unlikely to occur, fes, fg, oe and te have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.2 billion for fes, $368 million for oe and $192 million for te. in addition, new and certain existing environmental requirements may force us to shut down such generating facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with such environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results 26 we are obligated to provide safe and reliable service and equipment in our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. however, our employees, contractors and the general public may be exposed to dangerous environments, due to the nature of our operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment due to a number of factors, including, equipment failure, accidents and weather, could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. continued pressure on commodity prices including, but not limited to natural gas, could adversely affect our profit margins we purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) can affect our profit margins. competition and changes in the short or long-term market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors including, but not limited to, weather, energy efficiency mandates, dr initiatives and deactivations and retirements at power production facilities, may impact our results of operations and financial position by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to satisfy our sales obligations in the states in which we do business. we are exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. our ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. with low natural gas prices, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may curtail or cease operation of marginal plants. the availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. in addition, deterioration or weakness in the global economy has led to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which has lowered fossil fuel prices and may continue to put downward pressure on electricity prices. we are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with marketing and selling products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based rate tariffs authorized by ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages, including significant penalties under pjm's capacity performance market reform. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages and penalties could be significant . a single outage could result in penalties that exceed capacity revenues for a given unit in a given year. extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. in addition, these risk management related contracts could require the posting of additional collateral in the event market prices or market conditions change. the use of derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is limited liquidity of these contracts in the market. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) was enacted into law in july 2010 with the primary objective of increasing oversight of the united states financial system, including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. dodd-frank requires cftc and sec rulemaking to implement such provisions. although the cftc and the sec have completed certain of their rulemaking, other rulemaking remains. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. as a qualified end-user, we are required to comply with regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter and the posting of margin. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease. these rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the future impact dodd-frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 27 our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature subject to uncertainties, and we could suffer economic losses despite our efforts to manage and mitigate our risks we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts, and also to pay significant penalties under pjm's capacity performance market reform. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the creditworthiness of counterparties, future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage and nuclear plant decommissioning, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life, resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations, including any incidents of unplanned radiological release, or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal at the end of their licensed operation and increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of decommissioning. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. see "potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition" below and note 15, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. any one of these risks relating to our nuclear generation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings, involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, such proceedings relating to certain fuel and fuel transportation contracts as described in note 15, commitments, guarantees, and contingencies, of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. these and other matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. further, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will be favorable to us. if certain matters were ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, the results of operations and financial condition of both firstenergy and fes could be materially adversely impacted. 28 in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal and ccrs approximately 55% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired. historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including ghgs, and ccr disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. in december 2014, the epa finalized regulations for ccrs (non-hazardous waste), establishing national standards for the safe disposal of ccrs from electric generating plants. in august 2015, the epa finalized the cpp requiring reductions in ghg emissions from existing electric generating plants. these legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets, decommissioning and other trust funds, which then could require significant additional funding our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generation facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations, to pay future pension and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the pension, decommissioning and other trust funds, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the markets function appropriately. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm tariff. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos and rtos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. 29 in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in pjm or ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures that we may be unable to recover fully or at all. ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether isos or rtos in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. disruptions in our fuel supplies and changes in our fuel transportation needs could adversely affect our relationships with suppliers, our ability to operate our generation facilities or lead to business disputes, any of which may adversely impact financial results we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. we have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal supply and transportation needs, one of which runs through 2028 and certain of which relate to deactivated plants. we have asserted force majeure defenses for delivery shortfalls under certain of these agreements relating to our deactivated plants. one such agreement relates to the transportation by bnsf and csx of a minimum of 3.5 million tons of coal annually through 2025 to certain deactivated coal-fired power plants owned by fg, and this agreement is now in arbitration. another such agreement relates to the delivery of 2.5 million tons annually through 2025 to an operating plant as well as a deactivated plant. in addition, in one coal supply agreement, firstenergy, through a subsidiary, has also asserted termination rights effective in 2015 and is in litigation with the counterparty. we can provide no assurance that negotiations with counterparties, or any litigation or arbitration, will be favorably resolved. an adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may from time to time enter into new contracts, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. a significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased dr initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our ces segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions, such as changes in industrial demand. 30 the recognition of impairments of goodwill, long-lived assets, including certain investments, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations we have approximately $6.4 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2015 , of which $800 million is attributable to our ces segment. goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. key assumptions incorporated in the estimated cash flows used for the impairment analysis requiring significant management judgment include: discount rates, growth rates, future energy and capacity pricing, projected operating income, changes in working capital, projected capital expenditures, projected funding of pension plans, expected results of future rate proceedings, the impact of pending carbon and other environmental legislation and terminal multiples. although the annual goodwill impairment test in 2015 resulted in a conclusion that goodwill was not impaired, the fair value of the ces reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by only approximately 10%. we are unable to predict whether future impairment charges to goodwill may be necessary. in addition, we also review our long-lived assets and investments for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. for example, in 2015, we recorded a $362 million non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge associated with our investment in global holding, primarily as a result of distress in the coal market and industry. we are unable to predict whether impairments of one or more of our long-lived assets or investments may occur in the future. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments to goodwill, or long-lived assets in the future would depend on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. a determination that goodwill, a long-lived asset, or other investments are impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we must find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. further, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions and while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to retain or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. however, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures related to operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. while we anticipate that our operation and maintenance expenses will continue to increase, if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly higher than expected which could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations. cyber-attacks, data security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology systems could compromise our business operations, critical and proprietary information and employee and customer data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we use and are dependent upon information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. additionally, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. 31 over the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency of cyber-attacks by terrorists, hackers, international activist organizations, countries and individuals. these and other unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our network systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business in many ways, including directly through our network infrastructure or through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. additionally, our information and information technology systems may be increasingly vulnerable to data security breaches, damage and/or interruption due to viruses, human error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other malfunctions and disruptions. further, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and/or security. despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to defeat our security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. also, we may be at an increased risk of a cyber-attack and/or data security breach due to the nature of our business. any such cyber-attack, data security breach, damage, interruption and/or defect could: (i) disable our generation, transmission (including our interconnected regional transmission grid) and/or distribution services for a significant period of time; (ii) delay development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (iii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iv) corrupt data; and/or (v) result in unauthorized access to the information stored in our data centers and on our networks, including, company proprietary information, supplier information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in economic loss and liability and harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. additionally, because our generation, transmission and distribution services are part of an interconnected system, disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, rto, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our operations. although we maintain cyber insurance and property and casualty insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. further, as cyber threats become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, there can be no assurance that we can implement adequate preventive measures, accurately assess the likelihood of a cyber-incident or quantify potential liabilities or losses. also, we may not discover any data security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the data security breach occurs. for all of these reasons, any such cyber incident could result in significant lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers for a significant period of time, the use of significant management resources, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, increased regulation, increased capital costs, increased protection costs for enhanced cyber security systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our internal controls ineffective, all of which could adversely effect our business and financial condition. physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including nuclear and other power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity for a significant period of time, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for execution of extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our energizing the future transmission expansion program. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in, or the adequacy or availability of, the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, 32 because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. changes in technology and regulatory policies may significantly make our generating facilities less competitive and adversely affect our results of operations we primarily generate electricity at large central station generation facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer generation technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in newer generation technologies will make them more cost-effective, or that changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that otherwise make these new technologies more competitive with central station electricity production. increased competition, whether from such advances in technologies or from changes in regulatory policy, could result in permanent reductions in our historical load, adversely impact scheduling of generation, and decrease sales and revenues from our existing generation assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, to the extent that new generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies because of transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, resulting in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. our hedging activities are generally undertaken with a view to overall firstenergy exposures. some firstenergy companies may therefore be more or less hedged than if they were to engage in such transactions alone. certain firstenergy companies also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliate companies under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such a guarantee by such firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs or the incurrence of additional debt certain firstenergy companies have issued guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. for instance, fe is a guarantor under a syndicated senior secured term loan facility, under which global holding borrowed $300 million. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill this obligation and other obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. additionally, with respect to fev's investment in global holding, due to distress in the coal market and industry, global holding could require additional capital from its owners, including fev, to fund operations and meet its obligations under its term loan facility. these capital requirements could be significant and if other partners do not fund the additional capital, resulting in fev increasing its equity ownership and obtaining the ability to direct the significant activities of global holding, fev may be required to consolidate global holding, increasing firstenergy's long term debt by $300 million. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which make them vulnerable to negative regulatory and legislative outcomes energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism on matters including the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, as well as negative publicity associated with the operation of nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities or proceedings seeking regulatory recoveries may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks associated with regulation to the extent our policies to control costs designed to mitigate low energy, capacity and market prices are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition since 2012, as part of our ongoing comprehensive review of competitive operations related to, among other things, plant economics, we have deactivated more than 5,000 mw of competitive generation. to the extent our policies designed to control our costs, or other facets of our financial plan, are unsuccessful, we could experience a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. to address problems in the capacity market, pjm in december 2014 proposed significant market reforms, including its 33 capacity performance proposal. on june 9, 2015, ferc issued an order conditionally approving the bulk of the proposed capacity performance reforms with an effective date of april 1, 2015, and the august 2015 pjm rpm auction incorporated the capacity performance reforms. to the extent pjm's capacity performance market reforms do not work as intended, energy and capacity market prices may remain volatile and low. any denial of, or delay in, cost recovery resulting from oe's, cei's and te's pending esp iv before the puco may impose risks on our operations and may negatively impact our credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition esps may be filed in ohio as a means to establish the mechanism by which generation rates are set and may also include other provisions related to distribution and transmission service, all of which is subject to the approval of the puco. as a result, oe, cei, and te may not be authorized to implement all of the rates, riders, and mechanisms for which they are seeking approval, or there may be a delay in such authorization. oe, cei, and te filed their proposed esp iv entitled powering ohio's progress that, including the impact of stipulations filed in the case, contemplates continuing a base distribution rate freeze and includes proposals to continue their rider dcr mechanism and competitive bidding process for non-shopping load and to undertake and implement an economic stability program provision, which includes an eight-year ferc-jurisdictional ppa with fes for the output of sammis, davis-besse and fes' share of ovec, designed to provide customers retail rate stability against market prices over a longer term. oe, cei, and te expect to receive a decision on their esp iv in march 2016. on january 27, 2016, certain parties filed a complaint at ferc against fes, oe, cei, and te that requests ferc review of the esp iv ppa under section 205 of the fpa. in addition to such proceeding, parties have expressed an intention to challenge in the courts and/or before ferc, the ppa or puco approval of the esp iv, if approved. management intends vigorously to defend against such challenges. the failure to obtain approval of the esp iv ppa or a successful challenge could negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of fe and fes. complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and rate cases could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by ferc or by one or more of the state regulatory commissions in which our utility subsidiaries operate. also, these rates may not be set to recover such utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. in addition, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to u.s. laws, executive orders, and regulations administered and enforced by the u.s. department of treasury and the department of justice restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). if any of our existing or future operations or investments, including our joint venture investment in signal peak or our continued procurement of uranium from existing suppliers, are subsequently determined to involve such prohibited parties we could be in violation of certain covenants in our financing documents and unless we cease or modify such dealings, we could also be in violation of such u.s. laws, executive orders and sanctions regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition each of the utilities' retail rates are set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in ohio by the puco, in new jersey by the njbpu, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the firstenergy utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs (including for example accelerated deployment of smart meters); and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" 34 cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities, including the pending esp iv in ohio will be granted in whole or in part. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, and reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. federal rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future earnings and cash flows, and impact our financial condition. regulatory changes in the electric industry could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of regulatory initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities and competitive energy providers conduct their business. ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. if any regulatory efforts result in decreased margins or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further regulatory efforts to modify our business or the industry. the business operations of our subsidiaries that sell wholesale power are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation ferc granted certain firstenergy generating subsidiaries authority to sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services at market-based rates. these orders also granted waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, for certain of these subsidiaries, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve with ferc the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, or create barriers to entry, or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. in the event that one or more of firstenergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected firstenergy subsidiary(ies) may be subject to sanctions and penalties, and would be required to file with ferc for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings and the loss of flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos rto rules could affect our ability to sell energy and capacity produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets. the rules governing the various regional power markets may change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. in some cases these changes are contrary to our interests and adverse to our financial returns. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been volatile and rto rules may contribute to this volatility. all of our generating assets currently participate in pjm, which conducts rpm auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. the prices our generating companies can charge for their capacity are determined by the results of the pjm auctions, which are impacted by the supply and demand of capacity resources and load within pjm and also may be impacted by transmission system constraints and pjm rules relating to bidding for dr, energy efficiency resources, and imports, among others. auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. to the extent pjm's capacity performance market reforms do not work as intended, energy and capacity market prices may remain volatile and low. we cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. we incur fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be significantly impacted. 35 we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings before ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption. such conservation programs could result in load reduction and adversely impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. currently, only our ohio companies recover lost distribution revenues that result between distribution rate cases. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we have already been adversely impacted by reduced electric usage due in part to energy conservation efforts such as the use of efficient lighting products such as cfls, halogens and leds. we could also be adversely impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. additionally failure to meet regulatory or legislative requirements to reduce energy consumption or otherwise increase energy efficiency could result in penalties that could adversely affect our results. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including rec purchase costs, purchased power and capital expenditures. such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. epa has investigated alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with new environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. in december 2011, the epa finalized mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, pm and hci, for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial. as a result of 36 a comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of mats and other expanded requirements, we deactivated twenty-six (26) older coal-fired generating units in 2012, 2013, and 2015. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to epa's cpp requiring reductions of ghg emissions and cwa effluent limitations imposing more stringent water discharge regulations, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of certain of our generation facilities, we will not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. at the international level, the obama administration submitted in march 2015, a formal pledge for the u.s. to reduce its economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 and joined in adopting the agreement reached on december 12, 2015 at the united nations framework convention on climate change meetings in paris. the paris agreement must be ratified by at least 55 countries representing at least 55% of global ghg emissions before its non-binding obligations to limit global warming to well below two degrees celsius become effective. further, due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, any other legal obligation that requires substantial reductions of ghg emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flow and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. we could be exposed to private rights of action relating to environmental matters seeking damages under various state and federal law theories private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other relief. for example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in other actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could result in the need to make modifications to our coal-fired plants or reduce emissions, suspend operations or pay money damages or penalties. adverse rulings in these or other types of actions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations. various federal and state water and solid, non-hazardous and hazardous waste regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures in september 2015, the epa finalized new, more stringent effluent limits for arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrogen for wastewater from wet scrubber systems and zero discharge of pollutants in ash transport water under the cwa. the epa has also established performance standards under the cwa for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, reducing impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) to a 12% annual average and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system) using site-specific controls based on studies to be submitted to permitting authorities. firstenergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake systems. depending on the results of such studies and implementation of impingement and entrainment performance standards by permitting authorities, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. we are or may be subject to costs of remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. 37 we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigation involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at our facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition as a result of the nrc's investigation of the incident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant, the nrc has begun to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the united states, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. for example, as a follow up to the nrc near-term task force's review and analysis of the fukushima daiichi accident, in january 2012, the nrc released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. the nrc has also issued orders and guidance that increases procedural and testing requirements, requires physical modifications to our plants and is expected to increase future compliance and operating costs. these reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. it is also possible that the nrc could suspend or otherwise delay nuclear relicensing proceedings. the impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect firstenergy's financial condition or results of operations. the risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. climate change could also affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. further, as extreme weather conditions increase system stress, we may incur costs relating to additional system backup or service interruptions, and in some instances we may be unable to recover such costs. for all of these reasons, these physical risks could have an adverse financial impact on our operations and operating results. climate change poses other financial risks as well. to the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional system assets and purchase additional power. additionally, decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased rates, revenues, margins or earnings. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. changes in local, state or federal tax laws applicable to us or adverse audit results or tax rulings, and any resulting increases in taxes and fees, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows firstenergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. we exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by firstenergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 38 risks associated with financing and capital structure volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. volatility in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral and the ability to continue successfully implementing our retail sales strategy we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that are beyond our risk management processes. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would increase our interest expense on certain of firstenergy's long-term debt obligations and would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. the stability of counterparties could adversely affect us we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure all or part of their obligations to firstenergy or its subsidiaries. if the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to 39 cover the related obligations. in such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices. although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. our utility and transmission subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility and federal commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state and federal commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility and transmission subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 107 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 107risk factors, (b) item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and (c) other factors discussed herein and in other filings with the sec by the registrants. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this form 10-k. neither of the registrants undertake any obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. table of contents page glossary of terms iii part i. item 1. business 1 the compan ies 1 utility regulation 5 state regulation 5 federal regulation 5 regulatory accounting 6 maryland regulatory matters 6 new jersey regulatory matters 6 ohio regulatory matters 7 pennsylvania regulatory matters 8 west virginia regulatory matters 9 ferc matters 10 capital requirements 14 nuclear operating licenses 18 nuclear regulation 18 nuclear insurance 18 environmental matters 19 fuel supply 22 system demand 23 supply plan 23 regional reliability 24 competition 24 seasonality 24 research and development 24 executive officers 25 employees 26 firstenergy web site and other social media sites and applications 26 item 1a. risk factors 28 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the fe board of directors or appropriate committees of such board and the fes board of directors, respectively. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy and fes. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to the transition to a fully regulated utility we have taken a series of actions to focus our growth on our regulated operations, particularly within the regulated transmission segment. whether this investment strategy will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future we focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our regulated operations - particularly within our regulated transmission segment - as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. the success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments include: (1) ferc's timely approval of rates to recover such investments; (2) whether the investments are included in pjm's rtep; (3) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (4) ferc's evolving policies with respect to the calculation of the base roe component of transmission rates, as articulated in ferc's opinion no. 531 and related orders; (5) consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (6) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. the success of these efforts will also depend, in part, on any future distribution rate cases and transmission rate filings in the states where our utilities operate. any denial of, or delay in, the approval of any future distribution or transmission rate requests could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risks on the regulated transmission and regulated distribution operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy and results of operations. our efforts also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that our efforts to reflect a more regulated business profile will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. consistent with our strategy to be a fully regulated utility, we intend to exit the competitive generation business; failure to successfully implement strategic alternatives for the ces segment may further negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes, and regardless of the viability or success of the sale of certain ae supply generation assets and other strategic alternatives for the ces segment, certain events may significantly increase cash flow and liquidity risks, and may cause fes and, possibly, fenoc to take other actions, including debt restructuring or seeking protection under the u.s. bankruptcy laws depressed prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets insufficient results from recent capacity auctions and anemic demand forecasts that have lowered the value of the business continue to challenge the ces segment, including fes. consequently, as previously disclosed in firstenergy and fes' prior sec filings and as further discussed in "firstenergy's management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "fes' narrative analysis of results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016, firstenergy is engaged in a strategic review of its competitive operations focused on the sale of gas and hydroelectric units at ae supply, as well as exploring all alternatives for the remaining generation assets at fes and ae supply. these alternatives include, but are not limited to, (i) the sale or deactivation of additional generating units and other assets within ces, including fes, (ii) legislative or regulatory solutions for generation assets that recognize their environmental or energy security benefits, (iii) restructuring fes debt with its creditors, and/or (iv) seeking protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws for fes, and possibly fenoc. management anticipates that the viability of these alternatives will be determined in the near term with a target to implement these strategic options by mid-2018. each of fe and fes (together with fenoc) have engaged separate advisors to assist them as they explore these strategic alternatives and other options if these alternatives cannot be implemented. no assurance can be given, however, that these strategic alternatives are viable or will be achieved or sufficiently realized or the time frame in which they may be achieved. regardless of the viability or success of the sales of ces generation assets and other strategic alternatives for the ces business discussed above, ces, including fes, faces significant cash flow and liquidity risks including, but not limited to the following: requests to post additional collateral or accelerate payments 28 adverse outcomes in previously disclosed disputes regarding long-term coal and coal transportation contracts; and the inability to refinance debt maturities at fes subsidiaries of $130 million, $515 million, and $323 million in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and in the event ae supply's pending sale of assets is not consummated, $155 million in 2019 at ae supply, in each case, at attractive rates or at all. any one of these events, even if the alternatives outlined above or any other viable business alternatives are implemented, could require fes to (i) restructure debt and other financial obligations, or (ii) borrow additional funds from fe under its secured credit facility. in addition, fes, and possibly fenoc, may determine to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws regardless of the viability of one or more strategic alternatives. a near-term deactivation of one or more of the nuclear generating units could have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's and/or fes' business, financial condition and results of operations as the ndts may be insufficient to address all radiological decommissioning costs thus requiring financial guarantees or additional contributions, which could be significant. additionally, the funds from the ndts may be restricted from being used to address other significant costs resulting from a near-term deactivation, such as the costs associated with storing spent nuclear fuel onsite. adverse judgments or outcomes in ongoing disputes could result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes. additionally, although the recent amendment to fe's credit facility revised the debt to total capitalization ratio covenant to exclude non-cash charges up to $5.5 billion related to asset impairments attributable to the power generation assets owned by fes, ae supply and each of their subsidiaries, charges beyond that amount could result in an event of default related to the indebtedness of fe, which may have a further material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of fe. there is substantial uncertainty as to fes' ability to continue as a going concern and substantial risk that it may be necessary for fes, and possibly fenoc, to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, which would have a material adverse impact on firstenergy's and fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows based upon continued depressed prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets, weak demand for electricity and anemic demand forecasts, fes' cash flow from operations may be insufficient to repay its indebtedness or trade payables in the long-term. although management is exploring capital and other cost reductions, asset sales, and other options to improve cash flow as well as continuing with legislative efforts to explore a regulatory type solution, the obligations and their impact to liquidity raise substantial doubt about fes' ability to meet its obligations as they come due over the next twelve months and, as such, its ability to continue as a going concern. however, the accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might result from the uncertainty associated with the ability to meet obligations as they come due. although each of firstenergy and fes (together with fenoc) have engaged separate financial and legal advisors to assist with the evaluation of various strategic alternatives and to address the liquidity needs and the current capitalization of fes, there can be no assurance fes will be successful in pursuing such alternatives and due to fes' financial condition, there is a substantial risk that it may be necessary for fes, and possibly fenoc, to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. an fes bankruptcy proceeding would have a material adverse effect on fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. management of firstenergy and fes would be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the bankruptcy proceeding instead of focusing on their business operations. in addition, it is expected that prior to the commencement of any such proceeding, fes will be fully drawn under its new $500 million secured credit facility from fe, which fe would likely fund by borrowing under its bank facility. a bankruptcy proceeding at fes also may make it more difficult to retain, attract or replace management and other key personnel. moreover, creditors of fes may attempt to assert claims against firstenergy that may require significant effort and money to defend. there can be no assurance that firstenergy would be successful in defending against any such claims. the costs and the uncertainty of potential liabilities during the pendency of an fes bankruptcy proceeding could have a material and adverse impact on firstenergy's and fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. firstenergy and fes may not be successful in pursuing and/or consummating sales of generating assets, which could result in further substantial write-downs and impairments of assets and have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes since beginning their strategic review of the ces segment, firstenergy and fes have been pursuing the sale of certain generating and other assets. because of the current financial condition of fes, those sales may be more difficult to execute at market values or at all. in this regard, on january 18, 2017, ae supply and agc entered into an asset purchase agreement for the sale of its springdale, chambersburg, gans and hunlock gas facilities and ae supply's share of agc's ownership interest in bath county, with a combined capacity of 1,572 mws. under the terms of the agreement, the facilities would be purchased for an all cash purchase price of approximately $925 million. the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2017, subject to satisfaction of various customary and other closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, the receipt of third party consents and the satisfaction and 29 discharge of ae supply's senior note indenture, under which there is approximately $305 million of indebtedness outstanding, that is expected to require a make-whole payment anticipated to be approximately $100 million based on current interest rates. many of the conditions to closing are outside the control of ae supply and agc and there is no assurance that any such approvals will be obtained and/or any such conditions will be satisfied or that such sale will be consummated. if this sale or others by ae supply or fes are not achieved or realized, ae supply and fes may take further substantial write-downs and impairments of assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes and put additional pressure on the success of other strategic alternatives for remaining generation assets at fes and ae supply. certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of one or more firstenergy entities, including additional significant exposure in the event of an fes and, possibly, fenoc bankruptcy proceeding certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies pursuant to transactions involving energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, and could result in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. certain firstenergy companies also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliate companies under transactions of the type described above or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such guarantee by such firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. fes provides a parental support agreement to ng of up to $400 million. the nrc typically relies on such parental support agreements to provide additional assurance that u.s. merchant nuclear plants, including ng's nuclear units, have the necessary financial resources to maintain safe operations, particularly in the event of extraordinary circumstances. if fes is called upon by ng to perform under this arrangement, fes' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected, and could result in fes being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. if fe's credit support to fes for this arrangement is established as described under nuclear regulation above, fe's liquidity could also be adversely affected if such support is necessary to be utilized by fes. in addition, there are significant commercial and other relationships among fe, fes and other fe subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, ae supply and fenoc. these relationships include a shared services agreement, cash management, intercompany loans, tax sharing and energy-related purchases and sales, among others, which would be subject to review and possible challenge in the event of an fes bankruptcy proceeding. firstenergy is unable to estimate the outcome of such challenges or other claims arising out of an fes bankruptcy proceeding, any resulting material losses, obligations or other liabilities of firstenergy or their possible material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy, including, but not limited to, ae supply. in the event fes seeks such protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, fenoc may similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. fes, fg, oe and te are exposed to losses under their applicable sale and leaseback arrangements for generating facilities upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render those facilities worthless. fes, fg, oe and te have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.1 billion for fes, $199 million for oe and $154 million for te. in addition, new and certain existing environmental requirements may force us to shut down such generating facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with such environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. in connection with the consummation of ae supply's pending sale of assets to aspen, fe will provide two limited guaranties of certain obligations of ae supply and agc arising under the purchase agreement. the guaranties vary in amount and scope and expire in one and three years, respectively. liabilities incurred under these guarantees could have an adverse impact on fe. risks related to the ces segment continued depressed prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets may further negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes and have resulted in firstenergy and fes conducting a strategic review of competitive operations, such as the sale or deactivation of additional generating units, which may have a further material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes depressed prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets continue to challenge the coal and nuclear baseload generating units within the ces business segment, including those of fes. the continued depression of these markets may further negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes. 30 fe does not intend to infuse additional equity into ces and only expects to continue to support ces, including fes, as necessary to maintain safe operations and to preserve the fleet as it pursues strategic alternatives with respect to ces. however, ces has liquidity support, in the case of fes, through the secured credit facility entered into between fes and fe in december 2016 and, in the case of ae supply, through the firstenergy unregulated companies' money pool . no assurance can be given, however, that such expectations will not change or that the alternatives for ces, including those discussed in management's discussion and analysis of registrant and subsidiaries - executive summary, are viable or will be achieved or sufficiently realized. if options that retain the current fleet cannot be implemented or can only be implemented for a portion of the ces fleet, we may consider other options longer term, such as the sale or deactivation of additional generating units within ces, including fes, which may have a further material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes. fes has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect firstenergy's and fes' cash flow and liquidity and the ability of fes and its subsidiaries to fulfill their obligations, which could cause fes to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws fes and its subsidiaries have a significant amount of indebtedness, some of which is secured. specifically, as of december 31, 2016, $3 billion of outstanding long-term debt, of which approximately $620 million is secured and approximately $2.4 billion is unsecured. as a result of this debt, a substantial portion of cash flow from the operations of fes must be used to make payments on this debt, including the payment of principal and interest. furthermore, since a material percentage of the fes assets are used to secure this debt, and much of those assets have been substantially written down, there is little or no collateral available for future secured debt or credit support, which reduces firstenergy's and fes' flexibility in dealing with future liquidity needs or financial difficulties. this high level of indebtedness and related collateral pledges could have other adverse consequences to fes creditors, including: difficulty satisfying debt service and other obligations at fes and/or its individual subsidiaries; the inability or unwillingness to refinance debt maturities at fes subsidiaries of $130 million, $515 million, and $323 million in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively; additional postings of collateral or acceleration of payments; increasing the vulnerability of the business of firstenergy and fes to adverse industry and economic conditions; reducing the availability of fes cash flow to fund other corporate purposes, including the ability to pay dividends to firstenergy; limiting flexibility of firstenergy and fes in planning for, or reacting to, changes in their business and the industry; reducing the ability to enter into transactions with counterparties that may demand additional collateral or credit support from fe due to the creditworthiness; increasing the likelihood of litigation, the costs of which may be material; placing firstenergy and fes, at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, among other things, fe's and fes' ability to borrow additional funds as needed for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes and to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise or pay cash dividends. if market conditions in the wholesale energy and capacity markets continue to be depressed and the strategy discussed in "firstenergy's management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "fes' narrative analysis of results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016 and the above risk factors are not viable, achieved or sufficiently realized, then the cash flows of fes may not be sufficient to fund debt service obligations, including the repayment at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due. in that event, fes may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, raise equity or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance its debt as it becomes due, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of firstenergy and fes, result in one or more events of default being declared under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes and cause fes to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. in the event fes seeks such protection, fenoc may similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. additionally, if any potential defaults at fes are not resolved through waivers or otherwise cured, lenders could accelerate the maturity of the applicable debt. these defaults would have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of firstenergy securities. disruptions in our fuel supplies and changes in our fuel transportation needs could adversely affect our relationships with suppliers, our ability to operate our generation facilities or lead to business disputes and material judgments against us, any of which may adversely impact financial results, and in the case of certain fuel transportation contracts, adverse resolutions could cause fes to seek bankruptcy protection and result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes we purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation 31 costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting our fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on our ability to operate our facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. operation of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. we have long-term contracts in place for a majority of our coal supply and transportation needs, one of which runs through 2028 and certain of which relate to deactivated plants. we have asserted force majeure defenses for delivery shortfalls under certain of these agreements relating to our deactivated plants. two such agreements which are currently in separate arbitration proceedings relate to the transportation of an aggregate of a minimum of 6.0 million tons of coal annually through 2025 to certain operating and deactivated coal-fired power plants owned by fg. in addition, in one coal supply agreement, firstenergy, through ae supply, has also asserted termination rights effective in 2015 and is in litigation with the counterparty. we can provide no assurance that negotiations with counterparties, or any litigation or arbitration, will be favorably resolved. an adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and in the case of the fuel transportation contracts discussed above, such adverse resolutions could require fes to (i) restructure debt and other financial obligations, (ii) borrow additional funds from fe under its secured credit facility, (iii) sell additional assets or deactivate additional plants and/or (iv) seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, which in turn would result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes. in the event fes seeks such protection, fenoc may similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. in addition, we may from time to time enter into new contracts, or renegotiate certain of these contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. in addition, if prices for physical delivery are unfavorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. continued pressure on commodity prices including, but not limited to, fuel for our generation facilities, could adversely affect our profit margins during the period of transition to a fully regulated company, we continue to purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. increases in the costs of fuel for our generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) may affect our profit margins. competition and changes in the short or long-term market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors including, but not limited to, weather, energy efficiency mandates, dr initiatives and deactivations and retirements at power production facilities, may impact our results of operations and financial position by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount we pay to purchase power to satisfy our sales obligations in the states in which we do business. we are exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. our ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. with low natural gas prices, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins we realize from sales will be lower and, on occasion, we may curtail or cease operation of marginal plants. the availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. in addition, deterioration or weakness in the global economy has led to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which has lowered fossil fuel prices and may continue to put downward pressure on electricity prices. we are exposed to price risks associated with marketing and selling products in the power markets that we do not always completely hedge against we purchase and sell power at the wholesale level under market-based rate tariffs authorized by ferc, and also enter into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from our generation assets. if we are unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, we may be required to pay damages, including significant penalties under pjm's capacity performance market reform. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages and penalties could be significant . a single outage could result in penalties that exceed capacity revenues for a given unit in a given year. extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. we attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy our net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. we also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. we may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. to the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. in addition, these risk management related contracts could require the posting of additional collateral in the event market prices or market conditions change or our credit ratings are further downgraded. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, the environment, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage, nrc actions and nuclear plant decommissioning, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition 32 we are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment, human health and safety, including loss of life, resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of our nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations, including any incidents of unplanned radiological release, or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal at the end of their licensed operation and increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of decommissioning. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing, security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including ours. also, a serious nuclear incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. see "potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition" below and "note 16, commitments, guarantees and contingencies - environmental matters" of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements. any one of these risks relating to our nuclear generation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. there are uncertainties relating to our participation in rtos which could result in significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, limit the recovery of costs from retail customers and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and financial condition rto rules could affect our ability to sell energy and capacity produced by our generating facilities to users in certain markets. the rules governing the various regional power markets may change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. in some cases these changes are contrary to our interests and adverse to our financial returns. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been volatile and rto rules may contribute to this volatility. all of our generating assets currently participate in pjm, which conducts rpm auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. the prices our generating companies can charge for their capacity are determined by the results of the pjm auctions, which are impacted by the supply and demand of capacity resources and load within pjm and also may be impacted by transmission system constraints and pjm rules relating to bidding for dr, energy efficiency resources, and imports, among others. auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. to the extent pjm's capacity performance market reforms do not work as intended, energy and capacity market prices may remain volatile and low. we cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. we incur fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be significantly impacted. we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings before ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. risks related to business operations generally we are subject to risks arising from the operation of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment which could reduce revenues, increase expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations 33 operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results we are obligated to provide safe and reliable service and equipment in our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. however, our employees, contractors and the general public may be exposed to dangerous environments, due to the nature of our operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment due to a number of factors, including, equipment failure, accidents and weather, could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. the use of non-derivative and derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is limited liquidity of these contracts in the market. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) was enacted into law in july 2010 with the primary objective of increasing oversight of the united states financial system, including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. dodd-frank requires cftc and sec rulemaking to implement such provisions. although the cftc and the sec have completed certain of their rulemaking, other rulemaking remains. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. as a qualified end-user, we are required to comply with regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter and the posting of margin. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease. these rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the future impact dodd-frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature subject to uncertainties, and we could suffer economic losses resulting in an adverse effect on results of operations despite our efforts to manage and mitigate our risks we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts, and also to pay significant penalties under pjm's capacity 34 performance market reform. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the creditworthiness of counterparties, future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings, involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, including certain fuel and fuel transportation contracts, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and in the case of proceedings related to certain fuel transportation contracts, adverse decisions could cause fes to seek bankruptcy protection and result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, such proceedings relating to certain fuel and fuel transportation contracts as described in note 16, commitments, guarantees, and contingencies, of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements and further discussed above in the risk factor disruptions in our fuel supplies and changes in our fuel transportation needs could adversely affect our relationships with suppliers, our ability to operate our generation facilities or lead to business disputes, and material judgments against us, any of which may adversely impact financial results, and in the case of certain fuel transportation contracts, adverse resolutions could cause fes to seek bankruptcy protection and result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes . these and other matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. further, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will be favorable to us. if certain matters were ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, the results of operations and financial condition of both firstenergy and fes could be materially adversely impacted, and in the case of proceedings related to certain coal transportation contracts, such unfavorable results could require fes to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, which in turn would result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes. in the event fes seeks such protection, fenoc may similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal, ghgs and ccrs approximately 55% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired, totaling 9,406 mws, of which 6,313 mws is within the ces segment. historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including ghgs, and ccr disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. in december 2014, the epa finalized regulations for ccrs (non-hazardous waste), establishing national standards for the safe disposal of ccrs from electric generating plants. in august 2015, the epa finalized the cpp (which has been stayed in the united states supreme court pending resolution of legal challenges) requiring reductions in ghg emissions from existing electric generating plants. these legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generating facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission firstenergy's nuclear generating facilities, to pay future pension and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the decommissioning, pension and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. 35 we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the markets function appropriately. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm tariff. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be adversely affected we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos and rtos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be adversely affected , or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in pjm or ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures that we may be unable to recover fully or at all. ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether isos or rtos in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have a negative impact on our results of operations and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. a significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased dr initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 36 we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy manufacturing industries such as automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our ces segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions, such as changes in industrial demand. we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we are continually challenged to find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. additionally, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions. while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to prevent labor disruptions and retain and/or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. however, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures related to operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. additionally, there is an increased uncertainty related to our operation and maintenance expenses as a result of the new trump administration and republican control of the u.s. congress. while we anticipate that our operation and maintenance expenses will continue to increase, if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly higher than expected which could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations. additionally, following the november 2016 united states presidential and congressional elections, u.s. and global financial markets have responded with significant volatility. firstenergy recognizes as a pension and other post-employment benefits (opeb) mark-to-market adjustment the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses for its pension and opeb plans in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. cyber-attacks, data security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology systems could compromise our business operations, critical and proprietary information and employee and customer data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we use and are dependent upon information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. additionally, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. over the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency of cyber-attacks by terrorists, hackers, international activist organizations, countries and individuals. these and other unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our network systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business in many ways, including directly through our network infrastructure or through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. additionally, our information and information technology systems may be increasingly vulnerable to data security breaches, damage and/or interruption due to 37 viruses, human error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other malfunctions and disruptions. further, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and/or security. despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to defeat our security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. also, we may be at an increased risk of a cyber-attack and/or data security breach due to the nature of our business. any such cyber-attack, data security breach, damage, interruption and/or defect could: (i) disable our generation, transmission (including our interconnected regional transmission grid) and/or distribution services for a significant period of time; (ii) delay development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (iii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iv) corrupt data; and/or (v) result in unauthorized access to the information stored in our data centers and on our networks, including, company proprietary information, supplier information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in economic loss and liability and harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. additionally, because our generation, transmission and distribution services are part of an interconnected system, disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, rto, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our operations. although we maintain cyber insurance and property and casualty insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. further, as cyber threats become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, there can be no assurance that we can implement adequate preventive measures, accurately assess the likelihood of a cyber-incident or quantify potential liabilities or losses. also, we may not discover any data security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the data security breach occurs. for all of these reasons, any such cyber incident could result in significant lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers for a significant period of time, the use of significant management resources, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, increased regulation, increased capital costs, increased protection costs for enhanced cyber security systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our internal controls ineffective, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including nuclear and other power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity for a significant period of time, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for execution of extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our energizing the future transmission expansion program, which has been extended to include $4.2 to $5.8 billion in investments from 2018 through 2021. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in, or the adequacy or availability of, the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or 38 cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. changes in technology and regulatory policies may make our generating facilities significantly less competitive and adversely affect our results of operations we primarily generate electricity at large central station generation facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer generation technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in newer generation technologies will make newer generation technologies more cost-effective, or that changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that otherwise make these newer generation technologies more competitive with central station electricity production. increased competition, whether from such advances in technologies or from changes in regulatory policy, could result in permanent reductions in our historical load, adversely impact scheduling of generation, and decrease sales and revenues from our existing generation assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, to the extent that newer generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs or the incurrence of additional debt certain firstenergy companies have issued guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. for instance, fe is a guarantor under a syndicated senior secured term loan facility, under which global holding borrowed $300 million. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill this obligation and other obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. additionally, with respect to fev's investment in global holding, it could require additional capital from its owners, including fev, to fund operations and meet its obligations under its term loan facility. these capital requirements could be significant and if other partners do not fund the additional capital, resulting in fev increasing its equity ownership and obtaining the ability to direct the significant activities of global holding, fev may be required to consolidate global holding, increasing firstenergy's long-term debt by $300 million. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity causing less favorable regulatory and legislative outcomes which could have an adverse impact on our business energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism on matters including the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, as well as negative publicity associated with the operation or bankruptcy of nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities or proceedings seeking regulatory recoveries may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks associated with regulation any subsequent modifications to, denial of, or delay in the effectiveness of the puco's approval of the dmr could impose significant risks on firstenergy's operations and materially and adversely impact the credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy on october 12, 2016, the puco denied the ohio companies' modified rider rrs and, in accordance with the puco staff's recommendation, approved a new dmr providing for the collection of $204 million annually (grossed up for income taxes) for three years with a possible extension for an additional two years. on november 10, 2016 and november 14, 2016, several parties, including the ohio companies, filed additional applications for rehearing on the ohio companies' esp iv with the puco. on december 7, 2016, the puco granted reconsideration for further consideration of the matters specified in the applications for rehearing. the matter remains pending before the puco. any subsequent modification to, denial of, or delay in the effectiveness of, the puco's order approving the dmr could impose risks on our operations and materially and adversely impact the credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy. complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and rate cases could have a negative impact on our results of operations we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have an material adverse impact on our results of operations. 39 on january 26, 2017, ferc commissioner norman bay announced his resignation from ferc effective february 3, 2017. commissioner bay's departure means there will be only two sitting commissioners on the commission; accordingly ferc will not have the fpa-required quorum of at least three commissioners to conduct commission business, including the issuance of final commission orders on pending proceedings. delays in ferc orders could adversely impact the timing and implementation of pending or planned ferc-jurisdictional rate cases and transactions, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by ferc or by one or more of the state regulatory commissions in which our utility subsidiaries operate. also, these rates may not be set to recover such utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. in addition, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to u.s. laws, executive orders, and regulations administered and enforced by the u.s. department of treasury and the department of justice restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). if any of our existing or future operations or investments, including our joint venture investment in signal peak or our continued procurement of uranium from existing suppliers, are subsequently determined to involve such prohibited parties we could be in violation of certain covenants in our financing documents and unless we cease or modify such dealings, we could also be in violation of such u.s. laws, executive orders and sanctions regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition each of the utilities' retail rates are set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in ohio by the puco, in new jersey by the njbpu, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the firstenergy utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs (including for example accelerated deployment of smart meters); and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities will be granted in whole or in part. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, and reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. federal rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial or reduction of, or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, or if there is any resulting delay in cost recovery, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future earnings and cash flows, and impact our financial condition. 40 there are multiple matters pending before ferc, including without limitation, mait's and jcp&amp;l's formula rate proceedings. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings and an adverse result could have an adverse impact on firstenergy's results of operations and business conditions. regulatory changes in the electric industry could affect our competitive position and result in unrecoverable costs adversely affecting our business and results of operations as a result of regulatory initiatives, changes in the electric utility business have occurred, and are continuing to take place throughout the united states, including the states in which we do business. these changes have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in fundamental alterations in the way utilities and competitive energy providers conduct their business. ferc and the u.s. congress propose changes from time to time in the structure and conduct of the electric utility industry. if any regulatory efforts result in costs, decreased margins and/or unrecoverable costs, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. we cannot predict the extent or timing of further regulatory efforts to modify our business or the industry. the business operations of our subsidiaries that sell wholesale power are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation ferc granted the utilities and certain firstenergy generating subsidiaries authority to sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services at market-based rates. these orders also granted waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, for certain of these subsidiaries, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve with ferc the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, or create barriers to entry, or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. in the event that one or more of firstenergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected firstenergy subsidiary(ies) may be subject to sanctions and penalties, and would be required to file with ferc for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings and the loss of flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce peak demand and energy consumption. such conservation programs could result in load reduction and adversely impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the value of our competitive generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. currently, only our ohio companies recover lost distribution revenues that result between distribution rate cases. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we have already been adversely impacted by reduced electric usage due in part to energy conservation efforts such as the use of efficient lighting products such as cfls, halogens and leds. we could also be adversely impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, failure to meet regulatory or legislative requirements to reduce energy consumption or otherwise increase energy efficiency could result in penalties that could adversely affect our results. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including material increases in rec purchase costs, purchased power costs and capital expenditures. such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at a number of generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks in connection with changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results 41 in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards in connection with work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. epa has investigated alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position, but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with new environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if we make a determination that the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. for example, in december 2011, the epa finalized mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, pm and hci, for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial. as a result of a comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of mats and other expanded requirements, we deactivated twenty-six (26) older coal-fired generating units in 2012, 2013, and 2015. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to epa's cpp requiring reductions of ghg emissions and cwa effluent limitations imposing more stringent water discharge regulations, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of certain of our generation facilities, we will not directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such compliance. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. at the international level, the obama administration submitted in march 2015, a formal pledge for the u.s. to reduce its economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 and joined in adopting the agreement reached on december 12, 2015 at the united nations framework convention on climate change meetings in paris. the paris agreement has since been ratified by over 125 countries representing more than 80% of global ghg emissions and its non-binding obligations to limit global warming to well below two degrees celsius have become effective. further, due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, any other legal obligation that requires substantial reductions of ghg emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flow and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. it remains unclear whether and how the results of the 2016 u.s. election could impact the regulation of ghg emissions at the federal and state level. we could be exposed to private rights of action relating to environmental matters seeking damages under various state and federal law theories private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other relief. for example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in other actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could result in the need to make modifications to our coal-fired plants or reduce emissions, suspend operations or pay money damages or penalties. adverse rulings in these or other types of actions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our operations. various federal and state water and solid, non-hazardous and hazardous waste regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures in september 2015, the epa finalized new, more stringent effluent limits for arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrogen for wastewater from wet scrubber systems and zero discharge of pollutants in ash transport water under the cwa. the epa has also established performance standards under the cwa for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, reducing impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) to a 12% annual average and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn 42 into a facility's cooling water system) using site-specific controls based on studies to be submitted to permitting authorities. firstenergy is studying the cost and effectiveness of various control options to divert fish away from its plants' cooling water intake systems. depending on the results of such studies and implementation of impingement and entrainment performance standards by permitting authorities, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. we are or may be subject to costs of remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigations involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants, in several states. the majority of these claims arise out of alleged past exposures by contractors (and in pennsylvania, former employees) at both currently and formerly owned electric generation plants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at currently owned facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained and properly identified in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including osha. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. this is further complicated by the fact that many diseases, such as mesothelioma and cancer, have long latency periods in which the disease process develops, thus making it impossible to accurately predict the types and numbers of such claims in the near future. while insurance coverages exist for many of these pending asbestos litigations, others have no such coverages, resulting in firstenergy being responsible for all defense expenditures, as well as any settlements or verdict payouts. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. potential nrc regulation in response to the incident at japan's fukushima daiichi nuclear plant could adversely affect our business and financial condition as a result of the nrc's investigation of the incident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear plant, the nrc has begun to promulgate new or revised requirements with respect to nuclear plants located in the united states, which could necessitate additional expenditures at our nuclear plants. for example, as a follow up to the nrc near-term task force's review and analysis of the fukushima daiichi accident, in january 2012, the nrc released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the task force. the nrc has also issued orders and guidance that increases procedural and testing requirements, requires physical modifications to our plants and is expected to increase future compliance and operating costs. these reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. the impact of any such regulatory actions could adversely affect firstenergy's and fes' financial condition or results of operations. the risks associated with climate change may impact our results of operations and cash flows 43 physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. climate change could also affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. further, as extreme weather conditions increase system stress, we may incur costs relating to additional system backup or service interruptions, and in some instances we may be unable to recover such costs. for all of these reasons, these physical risks could have an adverse financial impact on our operations and operating results. climate change poses other financial risks as well. to the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional system assets and purchase additional power. additionally, decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased rates, revenues, margins or earnings. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. changes in local, state or federal tax laws applicable to us or adverse audit results or tax rulings, and any resulting increases in taxes and fees, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows firstenergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. we exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by firstenergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, the new presidential administration of the u.s. and the majority political party of the u.s. congress have announced a potential reform of u.s. tax laws. the details of the president's comprehensive tax plan have not yet emerged but during the presidential campaign, he outlined several proposed changes to corporate taxes. in addition, house republicans have drafted an initial tax reform, known as the "blueprint," to significantly amend the current income tax code. areas of tax reform under discussion include, without limitation, the following proposals: (i) elimination (partial or full) of the deductibility of interest expense on corporate debt, (ii) reduction in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, and (iii) immediate expensing of capital investment expenditures. no details regarding the transition from the current tax code to potential new tax reforms have emerged. we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new u.s. tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued, nor is the long-term impact of proposed tax reform clear. a reform of u.s. tax laws may be enacted in a manner that negatively impacts our results of operations, financial condition, business operations, earnings and is adverse to fe's shareholders. furthermore, with respect to the utilities, firstenergy cannot predict what, if any, response state regulatory commissions may have if any such tax reforms are enacted and the potential response of such authorities may include imposition of rate reductions in order to pass through to customers any perceived benefit of any such tax reform. 44 risks associated with financing and capital structure in the event of volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets, our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. in the event of volatility in the capital and credit markets, our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash may be adversely affected. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. should there be fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments, our access to liquidity needed for our business could be adversely affected. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected should there be disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral and the ability to continue successfully implementing our retail sales strategy we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that are beyond our risk management processes. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would increase our interest expense on certain of firstenergy's long-term debt obligations and would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our regulated businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. any default by customers or other counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure 45 all or part of their obligations to firstenergy or its subsidiaries. if the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. in such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices. although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. for example, reduced availability of fes cash flow resulting from a high level of indebtedness and related collateral pledges or any decision to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, could have a material adverse impact on fes' ability to pay dividends to fe. in the event fes seeks such protection under the u.s. bankruptcy laws, fenoc may similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. additionally, our utility and transmission subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility and federal commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state and federal commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility and transmission subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. fe may issue additional equity securities, which would likely lead to dilution of its issued and outstanding common stock and may materially and adversely affect the price of fe's common stock as part of its capital program, fe expects to issue $500 million of equity in each year 2017 through 2019 to help meet long-term cash needs, including cash requirements to fund regulated transmission's energizing the future program and for other general corporate and business purposes. the issuance of additional shares of fe's previously authorized and unissued common stock would likely result in the dilution of the ownership interests of fe's existing shareholders and a large issuance of additional shares may negatively impact the market price of fe's common stock. fe is authorized to issue 490 million shares of common stock. as of december 31, 2016, 442,344,218 shares of fe's common stock were issued and outstanding, and there were outstanding options and restricted stock awards totaling an additional 1,529,167 shares of fe's common stock. fe also has additional shares available for grant under the firstenergy corp. 2015 incentive compensation plan and equity compensation plans or amendments to existing equity compensation plans for employees and directors may be adopted from time to time. issuance of these shares of common stock would likely dilute the ownership interests of fe's then existing shareholders. because fe's decision to issue additional equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond fe's control, it cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of fe's future issuances, if any, and/or otherwise predict the extent of any future dilution. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. the recognition of impairments of goodwill and long-lived assets has adversely effected our results of operations and additional impairments in the ces segment could result under certain circumstances in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fe and have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of firstenergy's securities we have approximately $5.6 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2016. goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of july 31 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. key assumptions incorporated in the estimated cash flows used for the impairment analysis requiring significant management judgment include: discount rates, growth rates, future energy and capacity pricing, projected operating income, changes in working capital, projected capital expenditures, projected funding of pension plans, expected results of future rate proceedings, the impact of pending carbon and other environmental legislation and terminal multiples. for example, as a result of low capacity prices associated with the 2019/2020 pjm base residual auction in may 2016, as well as its annual update to its fundamental long-term capacity and energy price forecast in the second quarter of 2016, firstenergy determined that an interim impairment analysis of the goodwill at 46 ces was necessary in connection with the preparation of its financial statements for the three-month period ended june 30, 2016. based on such impairment analysis, firstenergy's second quarter 2016 results included a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of approximately $800 million, representing the total goodwill at the ces segment, including $23 million at fes. in addition, we also review our long-lived assets and investments for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. for example, in 2016, we recorded a $647 million non-cash pre-tax impairment charge associated with exit operations of bay shore unit 1 and w.h. sammis, units 1-4, including $517 million at fes. in connection with the intention to exit competitive generation, firstenergy recognized in the fourth quarter of 2016 a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $9.2 billion ($8.1 billion - fes) in firstenergy's 2016 consolidated statement of income. we are unable to predict whether further impairments of one or more of our long-lived assets or investments may occur in the future. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments to goodwill, or long-lived assets in the future depends on many factors, including the outcome of the strategic review, interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. a determination that goodwill, a long-lived asset, or other investments are impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. additionally, although the recent amendment to fe's credit facility revised the debt to total capitalization ratio covenant to exclude non-cash after-tax charges of up to $5.5 billion related to asset impairments attributable to the power generation assets owned by fes, ae supply and each of their subsidiaries, charges beyond that amount could result in an event of default related to the indebtedness of fe and have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of firstenergy's securities. 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 117 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 117risk factors, (b) item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and (c) other factors discussed herein and in other filings with the sec by the registrants. these risks, unless otherwise indicated, are presented on a consolidated basis for firstenergy; if and to the extent a deconsolidation occurs with respect to certain firstenergy companies the risks described herein may materially change. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this form 10-k. neither of the registrants undertake any obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. table of contents page glossary of terms iii part i. item 1. business 1 the compan ies 1 utility regulation 5 state regulation 5 federal regulation 5 regulatory accounting 6 maryland regulatory matters 6 new jersey regulatory matters 7 ohio regulatory matters 8 pennsylvania regulatory matters 9 west virginia regulatory matters 10 ferc matters 11 capital requirements 14 nuclear operating licenses 18 nuclear regulation 18 nuclear insurance 18 environmental matters 19 fuel supply 22 system demand 23 supply plan 23 regional reliability 24 competition 24 seasonality 24 research and development 24 executive officers 25 employees 26 firstenergy web site and other social media sites and applications 26 item 1a. risk factors 27 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management of each registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the registrants' businesses and reviews those risks with the fe board of directors or appropriate committees of such board and the fes board of directors, respectively. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy and fes. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we currently consider material. these risks, unless otherwise indicated, are presented on a consolidated basis for firstenergy; if and to the extent a deconsolidation occurs with respect to certain firstenergy companies, the risks described herein may materially change. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business, and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to the transition to a fully regulated utility we have taken a series of actions to focus our growth on our regulated operations, particularly within the regulated transmission segment. whether this investment strategy will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future we focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our regulated operations - particularly within our regulated transmission segment - as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. the success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments include: (1) ferc's timely approval of rates to recover such investments; (2) whether the investments are included in pjm's rtep; (3) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (4) ferc's evolving policies with respect to the calculation of the base roe component of transmission rates, as articulated in ferc's opinion no. 531 and related orders; (5) consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (6) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. the success of these efforts will also depend, in part, on any future distribution rate cases or other filings seeking cost recovery for distribution system enhancements in the states where our utilities operate and transmission rate filings at ferc. any denial of, or delay in, the approval of any future distribution or transmission rate requests could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risks on the regulated transmission and regulated distribution operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy and results of operations. our efforts also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that our efforts to reflect a more regulated business profile will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to successfully implement strategic alternatives for the ces segment to exit the competitive generation business may further negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes weak wholesale energy and capacity markets with significantly low results from recent capacity auctions and anemic demand forecasts have lowered the value of the business and continue to challenge the ces segment, including fes. consequently, as previously disclosed, firstenergy is engaged in a strategic review of its competitive operations including the pending sale of certain ae supply generation assets, and fes is exploring all alternatives for its generation assets. these alternatives include, but are not limited to, (i) the sale or deactivation of additional generating units and other assets within ces, including fes, (ii) restructuring fes debt with its creditors, and/or (iii) seeking protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws for fes and fenoc. management anticipates that the viability of these alternatives will be determined in the near term. each of fe and fes (together with fenoc) have engaged separate advisors to assist them as they explore these strategic alternatives and other options if these alternatives cannot be implemented. no assurance can be given, however, that these strategic alternatives are viable or will be achieved or sufficiently realized or the time frame in which they may be achieved. regardless of the viability or success of the sale of certain ae supply generation assets and other strategic alternatives for the ces segment, certain events may significantly increase cash flow and liquidity risks, have a material adverse effect on results of operations and the financial condition of fe and fes and cause fes and fenoc, to take other actions, including debt restructuring or seeking protection under the u.s. bankruptcy laws regardless of the viability or success of the sales of ces generation assets and other strategic alternatives for the ces business discussed above, ces, including fes, faces significant cash flow and liquidity risks including, but not limited to the following: the inability to refinance debt maturities at fes subsidiaries of $515 million and $323 million in 2018 and 2019, respectively, at attractive rates or at all; 27 requests to post additional collateral or accelerate payments, including prepayments to certain trade creditors; and adverse outcomes in previously disclosed disputes regarding long-term coal and coal transportation contracts. even if the alternatives outlined above or any other viable business alternatives are implemented, any one of these events or other further adverse developments in the ces segment could require fes to (i) restructure debt and other financial obligations, or (ii) borrow additional funds from fe under its secured credit facility. in addition, fes and fenoc may determine to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws regardless of the viability of one or more strategic alternatives. any such developments could have important consequences, including: the risk that we may not be able to, or may no longer desire to, complete our planned disposition of our generating assets; the risk that firstenergy could be required to satisfy or otherwise elect to guarantee significant financial obligations of fes or its subsidiaries, which could adversely affect the financial condition and cash flows of firstenergy; the risk that creditors of fes may attempt to assert claims, including those that arise out of litigation or other commercial disputes, against firstenergy that may require significant effort and money to defend and could adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of firstenergy; and the risk that certain triggering events could constitute events of default under certain of firstenergy's obligations. additionally, a deactivation significantly prior to the applicable license expiration date of one or more of ng's nuclear generating units could have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's and/or fes' business, financial condition and results of operations as the ndts may be insufficient to address all radiological decommissioning costs with respect to the applicable unit, thus requiring financial guarantees or additional contributions, which could be significant. the funds from the ndts may also be restricted from being used to address other significant costs resulting from a near-term deactivation, such as the costs associated with storing spent nuclear fuel onsite. adverse judgments or outcomes in ongoing disputes could result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes. additionally, although the debt-to-total-capitalization ratio included in fe's credit facility excludes non-cash charges up to $5.5 billion related to asset impairments attributable to the power generation assets owned by fes, ae supply and each of their subsidiaries, the asset impairments recognized in 2016 fully utilized the $5.5 billion exclusion and charges beyond that amount will negatively impact the debt-to-total-capitalization covenant, which may have a further material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of fe. there is substantial uncertainty as to fes' ability to continue as a going concern and substantial risk that it may be necessary for fes and fenoc to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, which would have a material adverse impact on firstenergy's and fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows based upon continued significantly low prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets, weak demand for electricity and anemic demand forecasts along with the inability to obtain legislative or regulatory relief, fes' cash flow from operations may be insufficient to repay its indebtedness or trade payables in the near- and long-term. fes' near-term obligations and their impact to liquidity raise substantial doubt about fes' ability to meet its obligations as they come due over the next twelve months and, as such, its ability to continue as a going concern. however, the accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might result from the uncertainty associated with the ability to meet obligations as they come due. each of firstenergy and fes (together with fenoc) have engaged separate financial and legal advisors to assist with the evaluation of various strategic alternatives and to address the liquidity needs and the current capitalization of fes. due to fes' financial condition, there is a substantial risk that it may be necessary for fes and fenoc to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. an fes bankruptcy proceeding would have a material adverse effect on fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. management of firstenergy and fes would be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the bankruptcy proceeding instead of focusing on their business operations. in addition, it is expected that prior to the commencement of any such proceeding, fes will fully draw down its $500 million secured credit facility from fe, which fe would likely fund by borrowing under its bank facility. a bankruptcy proceeding at fes also may make it more difficult to retain, attract or replace management and other key personnel. moreover, creditors of fes may attempt to assert claims against firstenergy that may require significant effort and money to defend. there can be no assurance that firstenergy would be successful in defending against any such claims. the costs and the uncertainty of potential liabilities during the pendency of an fes bankruptcy proceeding could have a material and adverse impact on firstenergy's and fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. fes' inability to satisfy its financial obligations could require firstenergy to make substantial payments in respect of such obligations, which could adversely affect the financial condition , cash flows , and the ability to satisfy obligations of firstenergy fe has provided a revolving credit agreement to fes that permits borrowings of up to $500 million and provides additional credit support to fes of up to $200 million. as part of firstenergy's centralized cash management functions, fes, its subsidiaries and fenoc have the ability to borrow from each other and fe to meet their short-term working capital requirements. in addition, fe 28 has guaranteed certain material financial obligations of fes and its subsidiaries. firstenergy also could elect to assume or satisfy other material financial obligations of fes and its subsidiaries. it is also possible that creditors of fes may attempt to assert claims against firstenergy that may require significant effort and money to defend or could result in losses to firstenergy. there can be no assurance that firstenergy would be successful in defending against any such claims. any of these matters could adversely affect the financial condition, cash flows and ability to satisfy obligations of firstenergy. in addition, the uncertainty associated with these matters could adversely affect firstenergy's ability to access the capital or credit markets and ability to finance its business. adverse developments related to the ces segment could trigger events of default under certain firstenergy obligations firstenergy's credit facilities contain various events of default, including with respect to the borrowers or significant subsidiaries (each as defined in the credit agreements), a bankruptcy or insolvency, the failure to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any indebtedness in excess of $100 million, or the failure to satisfy any judgment or order for the payment of money exceeding any applicable insurance coverage by more than $100 million. although fes and its subsidiaries are not significant subsidiaries for these purposes, it is possible that an adverse development related to fes could trigger an event of default under the firstenergy credit facilities if creditors of fes asserted successful claims against fe or our significant subsidiaries. additionally, although the debt-to-total-capitalization ratio covenant included in firstenergy's credit facility excludes non-cash charges up to $5.5 billion related to asset impairments attributable to the power generation assets owned by fes, ae supply and each of their subsidiaries, the asset impairments recognized in 2016 fully utilized the $5.5 billion exclusion and charges beyond that amount will negatively impact the debt-to-total-capitalization covenant. any development, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of firstenergy subsidiaries, debt acceleration or failures to satisfy judgments, could adversely affect the liquidity of firstenergy . in the event of a foreclosure, liquidation, bankruptcy or similar proceeding involving fes, fg or ng, the value of the collateral securing the secured indebtedness of fes' subsidiaries may not be sufficient to ensure repayment of such indebtedness and, in the case of a bankruptcy proceeding, the ability of holders of such indebtedness, including fe, to realize any such value may be delayed or otherwise limited fg and ng have secured pollution control notes outstanding as of december 31, 2017 of $612.2 million (fg - $327.6 million of fmbs; ng - $284.6 million of fmbs) and secured obligations supporting fes' $500 million revolving line of credit and $200 million additional credit support with fe (fg - $250 million of fmbs; ng - $450 million of fmbs). in the event of a foreclosure, liquidation, bankruptcy or similar proceeding affecting fes, fg or ng or any of their respective properties or assets, the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness or the net proceeds from any sale or liquidation of such collateral, as applicable, may not be sufficient to pay the obligations under such secured indebtedness. if the value of the collateral or the net proceeds of any sale of such collateral, as applicable, are not sufficient to repay all amounts due with respect to such secured indebtedness, the holders of the secured indebtedness would have an unsecured claim for the deficiency in value or proceeds against the applicable obligors alongside all other unsecured creditors of such obligor. none of fg, ng or fes can assure holders of their respective secured debt that, if a sale process were to be pursued, the collateral will be saleable or, if saleable, that there will not be substantial delays in its liquidation due to, among other things, the need for regulatory authorization from the ferc, nrc or other governmental authorities, as applicable. additionally, in the context of a bankruptcy case by or against fes, fg or ng, the holders of the secured indebtedness may not be able or entitled to receive payment of interest, fees (including attorney's fees), costs or charges related to such secured obligations, and may be required to repay any such amounts received by such holders during such bankruptcy case. the value of the collateral securing fg's and ng's secured obligations is subject to fluctuation and will depend on market and other economic conditions, including the availability of any suitable buyers for the collateral, which could be impacted by the risks and costs associated with operating nuclear generation facilities in the case of ng's properties and the risks and costs of operating coal and other fossil-fueled generation facilities in the case of fg's properties, including, in each case, complying with federal, state and local statutes and regulations associated with public health and safety and the environment. firstenergy and fes may not be successful in pursuing and/or consummating sales of generating assets, which could result in further substantial write-downs and impairments of assets and have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes since beginning their strategic review of the ces segment, firstenergy and fes have been pursuing the sale of certain generating and other assets. any such sale may be difficult to implement due to current and anticipated future market conditions and the attractiveness of nuclear and coal facilities to prospective purchasers. additionally, because of the current financial condition of fes, those sales may be more difficult to execute at market values or at all. in this regard, ae supply and agc entered into an asset purchase agreement with a subsidiary of ls power, as amended and restated in august 2017, to sell four natural gas generating plants, ae supply's interest in the buchanan generating facility and approximately 59% of agc's interest in bath county (1,615 mws of combined capacity), each component of which may close separately, for an aggregate all-cash purchase price of $825 million, subject to adjustments. 29 while the sale of the four natural gas generating plants was completed on december 13, 2017, the sale of ae supply's interest in the buchanan generating facility and agc's interest in bath county remain pending and are expected to close in the first half of 2018, subject to , in each case , various customary and other closing conditions including, without limitation, receipt of regulatory approvals. if the above sales or any others by ae supply or fes are not achieved or realized, ae supply and fes may take further substantial write-downs and impairments of assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes and put additional pressure on the success of other strategic alternatives for remaining generation assets at fes and ae supply. there can be no assurance that all closing conditions will be satisfied or that such sales will be consummated. certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of one or more firstenergy entities, including additional significant exposure in the event of a bankruptcy proceeding by fes and/or fenoc certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies pursuant to transactions involving credit, energy, coal, other commodities, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, and could result in the nondefaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. certain firstenergy companies also provide guarantees to third party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliate companies under transactions of the type described above, legal settlements or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such guarantee by such firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. fes provides a parental support agreement to ng of up to $400 million related to certain operating expenses and requirements. the nrc typically relies on such parental support agreements to provide additional assurance that u.s. merchant nuclear plants, including ng's nuclear units, have the necessary financial resources to maintain safe operations, particularly in the event of extraordinary circumstances. if fes is called upon by ng to perform under this arrangement, fes' results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected, and could result in fes being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. in addition, there are significant commercial and other relationships among fe, fes and other fe subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, ae supply and fenoc. in the event fes seeks protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, it is expected fenoc will similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. these relationships include a shared services agreement, cash management, intercompany loans, tax sharing and energy-related purchases and sales, among others, which would be subject to review and possible challenge in the event of an fes or fenoc bankruptcy proceeding. firstenergy is unable to estimate the outcome of such challenges or other claims arising out of an fes or fenoc bankruptcy proceeding, any resulting material losses, obligations or other liabilities of firstenergy or their possible material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy, including, but not limited to, ae supply. fes and fg are exposed to losses under the sale and leaseback arrangement for unit 1 at the bruce mansfield plant upon the occurrence of certain contingent events that could render that facility worthless such as a casualty event. fes and fg have a maximum exposure to loss under those provisions of approximately $1.1 billion . on the morning of january 10, 2018, bruce mansfield plant personnel were in the process of shutting down unit 1 for a maintenance outage when an equipment failure resulted in an unplanned outage for unit 2 that led to the loss of plant power. later that morning, a fire damaged the scrubber, stack and other plant property and systems associated with units 1 and 2. evaluation of the extent of the damage, which may be significant, to the scrubber, stack and other plant property and systems associated with units 1 and 2, and whether it may trigger a loss under the sale and leaseback arrangement, is underway and is expected to take several weeks. as part of ae supply's recent sale of gas generation assets to a subsidiary of ls power, fe provided two limited three-year guarantees totaling $555 million of certain obligations of ae supply and agc arising under the purchase agreement. liabilities incurred under these guarantees could have an adverse impact on fe. risks related to the ces segment continued low prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets may further negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes including the ongoing strategic review of competitive operations long-term low prices in the wholesale energy and capacity markets continue to challenge the coal and nuclear baseload generating units within the ces business segment, including those of fes. the continued weakness of these markets may further negatively and materially impact the future results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes and may limit the ability of fes to sell these units to third parties. 30 fe does not intend to infuse additional equity into ces and only expects to continue to support ces, including fes, as necessary to maintain safe operations and to preserve the fleet as it pursues strategic alternatives with respect to ces. however, fes has liquidity support through the secured credit facility entered into between fes and fe in december 2016 and an unregulated companies' money pool, through which fe expects to provide ongoing liquidity to fes and its subsidiaries through march 2018 . ae supply has access to a separate unregulated companies' money pool. no assurance can be given, however, that such expectations will not change or that the strategic alternatives for ces are viable or will be achieved or sufficiently realized. if options that retain the current fleet cannot be implemented or can only be implemented for a portion of the ces fleet, we may consider other options longer term, such as the sale or deactivation of additional generating units within ces, including fes, which may have a further material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes. fes has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect firstenergy's and fes' cash flow and liquidity and the ability of fes and its subsidiaries to fulfill their obligations, which could cause fes to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws fes and its subsidiaries have a significant amount of indebtedness, some of which is secured. specifically, as of december 31, 2017, $2.8 billion of outstanding long-term debt, of which approximately $610 million is secured and approximately $2.2 billion is unsecured. as a result of this debt, a substantial portion of cash flow from the operations of fes must be used to make payments on this debt, including the payment of principal and interest. furthermore, since a material percentage of the fes assets are used to secure this debt, and much of those assets have been substantially written down, there is little or no collateral available for future secured debt or credit support, which reduces flexibility in dealing with future liquidity needs or financial difficulties. this high level of indebtedness and related collateral pledges could have other adverse consequences to fes, including: difficulty satisfying debt service and other obligations at fes and/or its individual subsidiaries; the unlikelihood of fg and ng being able to refinance debt maturities of $515 million and $323 million in 2018 and 2019, respectively; additional postings of collateral or acceleration of payments; increasing the vulnerability of the business of fes to adverse industry and economic conditions; reducing the availability of fes cash flow to fund other corporate purposes; and reducing the ability of fes to enter into transactions with counterparties due to demands for additional collateral or credit support due to fes' creditworthiness. if market conditions in the wholesale energy and capacity markets continue to be weak and the strategic alternatives described above are not viable, achieved or sufficiently realized, then the cash flows of fes may not be sufficient to fund debt service obligations, including the repayment at maturity of all the outstanding debt as it becomes due. in that event, fes may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, raise equity or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance its debt as it becomes due, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of firstenergy and fes, result in one or more events of default being declared under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes and cause fes to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. in the event fes seeks such protection, it is likely fenoc will similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. additionally, if any potential defaults at fes are not resolved through waivers or otherwise cured, lenders could accelerate the maturity of the applicable debt which may, among other things, result in cross defaults of other fes debt obligations. these defaults would have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's and fes' business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. disruptions in fuel supplies and changes in fuel transportation needs could adversely affect relationships with suppliers, the ability to operate generation facilities or lead to business disputes and material judgments, any of which may adversely impact financial results, and in the case of a certain fuel transportation contract, an adverse resolution could cause fes to seek bankruptcy protection and result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes ces purchases fuel from a number of suppliers. the lack of availability of fuel at expected prices, or a disruption in the delivery of fuel which exceeds the duration of our on-site fuel inventories, including disruptions as a result of weather, increased transportation costs or other difficulties, labor relations or environmental or other regulations affecting fuel suppliers, could cause an adverse impact on the ability to operate ces' generating facilities, possibly resulting in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect results of operations of firstenergy and fes. operation of ces' coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on its ability to procure coal. ces has long-term contracts in place for a majority of its coal supply and transportation needs, one of which runs through 2028 and certain of which relate to deactivated plants. for example, ae supply and fg have asserted force majeure defenses for delivery shortfalls under certain of these agreements relating to our deactivated plants. one such agreement which is currently in arbitration relates to the transportation of an aggregate of a minimum of 2.5 million tons of coal annually through 2025 to certain operating and deactivated coal-fired power 31 plants owned by fg. in addition, in one coal supply agreement, ae supply has also asserted termination rights effective in 2015 and is in litigation with the counterparty. no assurance can be provided that negotiations with counterparties, or any litigation or arbitration, will be favorably resolved. an adverse resolution of any of these material matters could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of firstenergy and fes, and in the case of the arbitration related to the fuel transportation contract discussed above, an adverse resolution could require fes to (i) restructure debt and other financial obligations, (ii) borrow additional funds from fe under its secured credit facility, (iii) sell additional assets or deactivate additional plants and/or (iv) seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, which in turn would result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes. in the event fes seeks such protection, it is expected fenoc will similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. continued pressure on commodity prices including, but not limited to, fuel for generation facilities, could adversely affect profit margins during the period of firstenergy's transition to a fully regulated company away from commodity exposed generation, ces continues to purchase and sell electricity in the competitive retail and wholesale markets. increases in the costs of fuel for generation facilities (particularly coal, uranium and natural gas) may affect ces' profit margins. competition and changes in the short or long-term market price of electricity, which are affected by changes in other commodity costs and other factors including, but not limited to, weather, energy efficiency mandates, dr initiatives and deactivations and retirements at power generation facilities, may impact the results of operations and financial position of firstenergy and fes by decreasing sales margins or increasing the amount paid to purchase power to satisfy sales obligations in the states in which ces does business. ces is exposed to risk from the volatility of the market price of natural gas. its ability to sell at a profit is highly dependent on the price of natural gas. with low natural gas prices, other market participants that utilize natural gas-fired generation will be able to offer electricity at increasingly competitive prices, so the margins ces realizes from sales will be lower and, on occasion, ces may curtail or cease operation of marginal plants. the availability of natural gas and issues related to its accessibility may have a long-term material impact on the price of natural gas. ces is exposed to price risks associated with marketing and selling products in the power markets that it does not always completely hedge against ces purchases and sells power at the wholesale level under market-based rate tariffs authorized by ferc, and also enters into agreements to sell available energy and capacity from its generation assets. if ces is unable to deliver firm capacity and energy under these agreements, it may be required to pay damages, including significant penalties under pjm's capacity performance market reform. these damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or energy and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or energy. depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy markets, such damages and penalties could be significant . a single outage could result in penalties that exceed capacity revenues for a given unit in a given year. extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect ces' ability to meet its obligations, or cause increases in the market price of replacement capacity and energy. ces attempts to mitigate risks associated with satisfying its contractual power sales arrangements by reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity to satisfy its net firm sales contracts and, when necessary, by purchasing firm transmission service. ces also routinely enters into contracts, such as fuel and power purchase and sale commitments, to hedge exposure to fuel requirements and other energy-related commodities. ces may not, however, hedge the entire exposure of its operations from commodity price volatility. to the extent ces does not hedge against commodity price volatility, the results of operations and financial position of firstenergy and fes could be negatively affected. in addition, these risk management related contracts could require the posting of additional collateral in the event market prices or market conditions change or fes or ae supply's credit ratings are further downgraded. nuclear generation involves risks that include uncertainties relating to health and safety, the environment, additional capital costs, the adequacy of insurance coverage, nrc actions and nuclear plant decommissioning, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes fes is subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including but not limited to the following: the potential harmful effects on the environment, human health and safety, including loss of life, resulting from unplanned radiological releases associated with the operation of fes' nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with fes' nuclear operations, including any incidents of unplanned radiological release, or those of others in the united states; uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessments if insurance coverage is inadequate; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of spent fuel storage and decommissioning nuclear plants, including but not limited to, waste disposal at the end of their licensed operation and increases in minimum funding requirements or costs of decommissioning. 32 the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing, security and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. revised safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including those of fes. also, a serious nuclear incident at one of fes' nuclear facilities or a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or relicensing of any domestic nuclear unit. any one of these risks relating to fes' nuclear generation could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy and fes. there are uncertainties relating to participation in rtos which could result in significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, limit the recovery of costs from retail customers and have an adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows and financial condition of firstenergy and fes rto rules could affect the ability to sell energy and capacity produced by ces' generating facilities to users in certain markets. the rules governing the various regional power markets may change from time to time, which could affect its costs or revenues. in some cases, these changes are contrary to its interests and adverse to its financial returns. the prices in day-ahead and real-time energy markets and rto capacity markets have been volatile and rto rules may contribute to this volatility. all of ces' generating assets currently participate in pjm, which conducts rpm auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. the prices ces can charge for its capacity are determined by the results of the pjm auctions, which are impacted by the supply and demand of capacity resources and load within pjm and also may be impacted by transmission system constraints and pjm rules relating to bidding for dr, energy efficiency resources, and imports, among others. auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. to the extent pjm's capacity performance market reforms do not work as intended, energy and capacity market prices may remain volatile and low. ces cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of firstenergy and fes could be adversely impacted. ces incurs fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree ces incurs significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and is limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, the results of operations and cash flows of firstenergy and fes could be significantly impacted. as a member of an rto, ces is subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. risks related to business operations generally we are subject to risks arising from the operation of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment which could reduce revenues, increase expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. operation of our power plants below expected capacity could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher operation and maintenance costs, purchased power costs and capital requirements. unplanned outages of generating units and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses or may require us to incur significant costs as a result of operating our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our sales obligations. moreover, if we were unable to perform under contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, our coal and coal transportation contracts, penalties or liability for damages could result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results we are obligated to provide safe and reliable service and equipment in our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. however, our employees, contractors and the general public may be 33 exposed to dangerous environments due to the nature of our operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment due to a number of factors, including equipment failure, accidents and weather, could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased capital and operating costs and the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. the use of non-derivative and derivative contracts by us to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is limited liquidity of these contracts in the market. financial derivatives reforms could increase our liquidity needs and collateral costs and impose additional regulatory burdens the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank) was enacted into law in july 2010 with the primary objective of increasing oversight of the united states financial system, including the regulation of most financial transactions, swaps and derivatives. dodd-frank requires cftc and sec rulemaking to implement such provisions. although the cftc and the sec have completed certain of their rulemaking, other rulemaking remains. we rely on the otc derivative markets as part of our program to hedge the price risk associated with our power portfolio. as a qualified end-user, we are required to comply with regulatory obligations under dodd-frank, which includes record-keeping, reporting requirements and the clearing of some transactions that we would otherwise enter into over-the-counter and the posting of margin. also, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral otc swap market to decrease. these rules could impede our ability to meet our hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. firstenergy cannot predict the future impact dodd-frank rulemaking will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature subject to uncertainties, and we could suffer economic losses resulting in an adverse effect on results of operations despite our efforts to manage and mitigate our risks we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. for example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions reflected in our analyses. also, our power plants might not produce the expected amount of power during a given day or time period due to weather conditions, technical problems or other unanticipated events, which could require us to make energy purchases at higher prices than the prices under our energy supply contracts, and also to pay significant penalties under pjm's capacity performance market reforms. in addition, the amount of fuel required for our power plants during a given day or time period could be more than expected, which could require us to buy additional fuel at prices less favorable than the prices under our fuel contracts. as a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. our risk management activities, including our power sales agreements with counterparties, rely on projections that depend heavily on judgments and assumptions by management of factors such as the creditworthiness of counterparties, future market prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities. these factors become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. even when our policies and procedures are followed and decisions are made based on these estimates, results of operations may be adversely affected if the judgments and assumptions underlying those calculations prove to be inaccurate. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, including certain fuel and fuel transportation contracts, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and in the case of proceedings related to a certain fuel transportation contract, an adverse decision could cause fes to seek bankruptcy protection and result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings including, but not limited to, such proceedings relating to certain fuel and fuel transportation contracts. these and other matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. further, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will be favorable to us. if certain matters were ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, the results of operations and financial condition of both firstenergy and fes could be materially adversely impacted, and in the case of proceedings related to a certain coal transportation contract, such an unfavorable result could require fes to seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws, which in turn 34 would result in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fes. in the event fes seeks such protection, it is expected fenoc will similarly seek protection under u.s. bankruptcy laws. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. we have a significant percentage of coal-fired generation capacity which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal, ghgs and ccrs approximately 58% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired, totaling 9,406 mws, of which 6,313 mws is within the ces segment. historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including ghgs, and ccr disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. these legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities and could require our coal-fired generation plants to curtail generation or cease to generate. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our nuclear generating facilities and under pension and other postemployment benefit plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission firstenergy's nuclear generating facilities, to pay future pension and other obligations, requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the decommissioning, pension and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the markets function appropriately. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm tariff. we incur fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto, and are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be significantly impacted. we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings before ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. 35 as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. we rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. if transmission is disrupted, including our own transmission, not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be adversely affected we depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity we sell. if transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by isos and rtos, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be adversely affected, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. in addition, in certain of the markets in which we operate, we may be required to pay for congestion costs if we schedule delivery of power between congestion zones during periods of high demand. if we are unable to hedge or recover such congestion costs in retail rates, our financial results could be adversely affected. demand for electricity within our utilities' service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailing electricity usage that may increase operating costs or reduce revenues with adverse impacts to our results of operations. in addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in pjm or ferc requiring us to upgrade or expand our transmission system, requiring additional capital expenditures that we may be unable to recover fully or at all. ferc requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, it is possible that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. we cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether isos or rtos in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, or droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. customer demand could change as a result of severe weather conditions or other circumstances over which we have no control. we satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. a significant increase in demand could adversely affect our energy margins if we are required to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at fixed rates, which we expect would remain below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. a significant decrease in demand, resulting from factors including but not limited to increased customer shopping, more stringent energy efficiency mandates and increased dr initiatives could cause a decrease in the market price of power. accordingly, any significant change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy industries such as shale gas, automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. additionally, the primary market areas of our ces segment overlap, to a large degree, with our utilities' territories and hence its revenues are substantially impacted by the same economic conditions, such as changes in industrial demand. 36 we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we are continually challenged to find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. additionally, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions. while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to prevent labor disruptions and retain and/or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. however, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures related to operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. while we anticipate that our operation and maintenance expenses will continue to increase, if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly higher than expected which could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its defined pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations. firstenergy recognizes as a pension and opeb mark-to-market adjustment the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses for its pension and opeb plans in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. cyber-attacks, data security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology systems could compromise our business operations, critical and proprietary information and employee and customer data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we depend on information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. additionally, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. over the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency of cyber-attacks by terrorists, hackers, international activist organizations, countries and individuals. these and other unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our network systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business in many ways, including directly through our network infrastructure or through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. additionally, our information and information technology systems may be increasingly vulnerable to data security breaches, damage and/or interruption due to viruses, human error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other malfunctions and disruptions. further, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and/or security. despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to defeat our security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. also, we may be at an increased risk of a cyber-attack and/or data security breach due to the nature of our business. any such cyber-attack, data security breach, damage, interruption and/or defect could: (i) disable our generation, transmission (including our interconnected regional transmission grid) and/or distribution services for a significant period of time; (ii) delay development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (iii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iv) 37 corrupt data; and/or (v) result in unauthorized access to the information stored in our data centers and on our networks, including, company proprietary information, supplier information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in economic loss and liability and harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. additionally, because our generation, transmission and distribution services are part of an interconnected system, disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, rto, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our operations. although we maintain cyber insurance and property and casualty insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. further, as cyber threats become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, there can be no assurance that we can implement adequate preventive measures, accurately assess the likelihood of a cyber-incident or quantify potential liabilities or losses. also, we may not discover any data security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the data security breach occurs. for all of these reasons, any such cyber incident could result in significant lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers for a significant period of time, the use of significant management resources, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, increased regulation, increased capital costs, increased protection costs for enhanced cyber security systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our internal controls ineffective, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including nuclear and other power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity for a significant period of time, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, legal claims or proceedings, greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for execution of extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our energizing the future transmission expansion program, which has been extended to include $4.0 to $4.8 billion in investments from 2018 through 2021. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in, or the adequacy or availability of, the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. changes in technology and regulatory policies may make our facilities significantly less competitive and adversely affect our results of operations we primarily generate electricity at large central station generation facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer generation technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in newer generation technologies will make newer generation technologies more cost-effective, or that changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that otherwise make these newer generation technologies even more competitive with central station electricity production. increased competition, whether from such advances in technologies or from changes in regulatory policy, could result in permanent reductions in our historical load, adversely impact scheduling of generation, and decrease sales and revenues from our existing generation assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 38 further, to the extent that newer generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs or the incurrence of additional debt certain firstenergy companies have issued guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. for instance, fe is a guarantor under a syndicated senior secured term loan facility, under which global holding's outstanding principal balance is $275 million. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill this obligation and other obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. additionally, with respect to fev's investment in global holding, it could require additional capital from its owners, including fev, to fund operations and meet its obligations under its term loan facility. these capital requirements could be significant and if other partners do not fund the additional capital, resulting in fev increasing its equity ownership and obtaining the ability to direct the significant activities of global holding, fev may be required to consolidate global holding, increasing firstenergy's long-term debt by $275 million. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity causing less favorable regulatory and legislative outcomes which could have an adverse impact on our business energy companies, including firstenergy's utility subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism on matters including the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, as well as negative publicity associated with the operation or bankruptcy of nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities or proceedings seeking regulatory recoveries may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks associated with regulation any subsequent modifications to, denial of, or delay in the effectiveness of the puco's approval of the dmr could impose significant risks on firstenergy's operations and materially and adversely impact the credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy on october 12, 2016, the puco denied the ohio companies' modified rider rrs and, in accordance with the puco staff's recommendation, approved a new dmr providing for the collection of $204 million annually (grossed up for income taxes) for three years with a possible extension for an additional two years. various parties have appealed the puco's denial of subsequent applications for rehearing to the ohio supreme court. any subsequent modification to, denial of, or delay in the effectiveness of, the puco's order approving the dmr could impose risks on our operations and materially and adversely impact the credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy. complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and rate cases and restrictions and prohibitions on certain business dealings could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by ferc or by a state regulatory commission in which the utilities operate. also, these rates may not be set to recover such utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. in addition, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to u.s. laws, executive orders, and regulations administered and enforced by the u.s. department of treasury and the department of justice restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). if any of our existing or future operations or 39 investments, including our joint venture investment in signal peak or our continued procurement of uranium from existing suppliers, are subsequently determined to involve such prohibited parties we could be in violation of certain covenants in our financing documents and unless we cease or modify such dealings, we could also be in violation of such u.s. laws, executive orders and sanctions regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in, cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition each of the utilities' retail rates are set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in ohio by the puco, in new jersey by the njbpu, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc - through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the firstenergy utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs (including for example accelerated deployment of smart meters); and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities will be granted in whole or in part. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, and reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. federal rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial or reduction of, or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, or if there is any resulting delay in cost recovery, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future earnings and cash flows, and impact our financial condition. there are multiple matters pending before ferc. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings and an adverse result could have an adverse impact on firstenergy's results of operations and business conditions. the business operations of our subsidiaries that sell wholesale power are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation ferc granted the utilities and certain firstenergy generating subsidiaries authority to sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services at market-based rates. these orders also granted waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, for certain of these subsidiaries, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve with ferc the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, or create barriers to entry, or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. in the event that one or more of firstenergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected firstenergy subsidiaries may be subject to sanctions and penalties, and would be required to file with ferc for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings and the loss of flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce peak demand and energy consumption. such conservation programs could result in load reduction and adversely impact our financial results in different ways. to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the value of our competitive 40 generation and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. currently, only our ohio companies recover lost distribution revenues that result between distribution rate cases. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we have already been adversely impacted by reduced electric usage due in part to energy conservation efforts such as the use of efficient lighting products such as cfls, halogens and leds. we could also be adversely impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, failure to meet regulatory or legislative requirements to reduce energy consumption or otherwise increase energy efficiency could result in penalties that could adversely affect our financial results. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including material increases in rec purchase costs, purchased power costs and capital expenditures. such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in local, state or federal tax laws applicable to us or adverse audit results or tax rulings, and any resulting increases in taxes and fees, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows firstenergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. we exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by firstenergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, in december 2017, congress passed the tax act. details regarding the transition from the current tax code to new tax reforms are only beginning to emerge. we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new tax regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued, nor is the long-term impact of proposed tax reform clear. the reform of u.s. tax laws may be enacted in a manner that negatively impacts our results of operations, financial condition, business operations, earnings and is adverse to fe's shareholders. furthermore, with respect to the utilities and our transmission-owning affiliates, firstenergy cannot predict what, if any, response state regulatory commissions or ferc may have and the potential response of such authorities regarding the rates and charges of the utilities and our transmission-owning affiliates. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of the epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards during work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. the epa has investigated alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position, but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with new environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past 41 and may increase in the future. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. for example, in december 2011, the epa finalized mats to establish emission standards for, among other things, mercury, pm and hci, for electric generating units. the costs associated with mats compliance, and other environmental laws, is substantial. as a result of a comprehensive review of firstenergy's coal-fired generating facilities in light of mats and other expanded requirements, we deactivated twenty-six (26) older coal-fired generating units in 2012, 2013, and 2015. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to cwa effluent limitations imposing more stringent water discharge regulations, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. because of the deregulation of certain of our generation facilities, we cannot directly recover through rates additional costs incurred for such deregulated generation facilities. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. at the international level, the obama administration submitted in march 2015, a formal pledge for the u.s. to reduce its economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 and in september 2016, joined in adopting the agreement reached on december 12, 2015 at the united nations framework convention on climate change meetings in paris. however, on june 1, 2017, the trump administration announced that the u.s. would cease all participation in the 2015 paris agreement. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, any other legal obligation that requires substantial reductions of ghg emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flow and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. we could be exposed to private rights of action relating to environmental matters seeking damages under various state and federal law theories which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business operations private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other relief. for example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in other actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could result in the need to make modifications to our coal-fired plants or reduce emissions, suspend operations or pay money damages or penalties. adverse rulings in these or other types of actions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our business operations. various federal and state water and solid, non-hazardous and hazardous waste regulations may require us to make material capital expenditures in september 2015, the epa finalized new, more stringent effluent limits for arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrogen for wastewater from wet scrubber systems and zero discharge of pollutants in ash transport water under the cwa. the epa has also established performance standards under the cwa for reducing impacts on fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at certain existing electric generating plants, specifically, reducing impingement mortality (when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system) to a 12% annual average and entrainment (which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system) using site-specific controls based on studies to be submitted to permitting authorities. depending on the implementation of impingement and entrainment performance standards by permitting authorities, the future costs of compliance with these standards may require material capital expenditures. we are or may be subject to environmental liabilities, including costs of remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and 42 other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigations involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants, in several states. the majority of these claims arise out of alleged past exposures by contractors (and in pennsylvania, former employees) at both currently and formerly owned electric generation plants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at currently owned facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained and properly identified in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including osha. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. this is further complicated by the fact that many diseases, such as mesothelioma and cancer, have long latency periods in which the disease process develops, thus making it impossible to accurately predict the types and numbers of such claims in the near future. while insurance coverages exist for many of these pending asbestos litigations, others have no such coverages, resulting in firstenergy being responsible for all defense expenditures, as well as any settlements or verdict payouts. the continuing availability and operation of generating units is dependent on retaining or renewing the necessary licenses, permits, and operating authority from governmental entities, including the nrc we are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies and we are not assured that any such permits, approvals or certifications will be renewed. the risks associated with climate change may have an adverse impact on our business operations, operating results and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. climate change could also affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for continued operation of generating plants. further, as extreme weather conditions increase system stress, we may incur costs relating to additional system backup or service interruptions, and in some instances, we may be unable to recover such costs. for all of these reasons, these physical risks could have an adverse financial impact on our business operations, operating results and cash flows. climate change poses other financial risks as well. to the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional system assets and purchase additional power. additionally, decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased rates, revenues, margins or earnings. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. 43 risks associated with financing and capital structure in the event of volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets, our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments, our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. in the event of volatility in the capital and credit markets, our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash may be adversely affected. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. should there be fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments, our access to liquidity needed for our business could be adversely affected. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected should there be disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral and the ability to continue successfully implementing our retail sales strategy we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketings of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that are beyond our risk management processes. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. a downgrade in our credit rating, or that of our subsidiaries, could also preclude certain retail customers from executing supply contracts with us and therefore impact our ability to successfully implement our retail sales strategy. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would increase our interest expense on certain of firstenergy's long-term debt obligations and would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our regulated businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. any default by customers or other counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure 44 all or part of their obligations to firstenergy or its subsidiaries. if the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. in such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices. although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. additionally, our utility and transmission subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility and federal commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state and federal commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility and transmission subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. our mandatorily convertible preferred stock will be converted into common stock, at the latest, in two years from the date of issuance and the holders thereof have registration rights. upon conversion of the preferred shares, the number of common shares eligible for future resale in the public market will increase and may result in dilution to common shareholders. this may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock. on january 22, 2018, fe issued $2.5 billion of equity, which included $1.62 billion of mandatorily convertible preferred equity with an initial conversion price of $27.42 per share and $850 million of common equity issued at $28.22 per share. the issuance of common equity created some dilution to existing common holders. the new preferred shares contain an optional conversion for holders beginning in july 2018, and will mandatorily convert in 18 months from issuance, subject to limited exceptions. upon the conversion of the mandatorily convertible preferred stock additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which results in dilution to our stockholders, and will increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we cannot assure common and preferred shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common or preferred shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. further, the terms of the outstanding preferred stock require that preferred shareholders receive dividends alongside the common shareholders on an as-converted, pro rata basis. the recognition of impairments of goodwill and long-lived assets has adversely affected our results of operations and additional impairments in the ces segment could result under certain circumstances in one or more events of default under various agreements related to the indebtedness of fe and have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of firstenergy's securities we have approximately $5.6 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2017. goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of july 31 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. key assumptions incorporated in the estimated cash flows used for the impairment analysis requiring significant management judgment include: discount rates, growth rates, future energy and capacity pricing, projected operating income, changes in working capital, projected capital expenditures, projected funding of pension plans, expected results of future rate proceedings, the impact of pending carbon and other environmental legislation and terminal multiples. we are unable to predict whether further impairments of one or more of our long-lived assets or investments may occur in the future. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments to goodwill, or long-lived assets in the future depends on many factors, including the outcome of the strategic review, interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, natural gas or other commodity prices, market prices for power, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, the value of comparable acquisitions, environmental regulations and other factors. a determination that goodwill, a long-lived asset, or other investments are impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. additionally, although the debt-to-total-capitalization ratio of fe's credit facility excludes non-cash charges up to $5.5 billion related to asset impairments attributable to the power generation assets owned by fes, ae supply and each of their 45 subsidiaries, the asset impairments recognized in 2016 fully utilized the $5.5 billion exclusion and charges beyond that amount will negatively impact the debt-to-total-capitalization covenant, which may have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of firstenergy's securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 114 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." 114risk factors 22 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management regularly evaluates the most significant risks of its businesses and reviews those risks with the board of directors or appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks related to the fes bankruptcy we are subject to risks relating to the fes bankruptcy as previously disclosed, the fes debtors filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code to facilitate an orderly restructuring. it is possible that as part of the restructuring process, claims may be asserted by or on behalf of the fes debtors against non-debtor affiliates of the fes debtors. any assertions of claims by creditors of the fes debtors against firstenergy may require significant effort, resources, and money to defend or could result in material losses to firstenergy. we can provide no assurance that any such claims, if asserted, will be resolved in accordance with the fe bankruptcy settlement agreement or a manner that is satisfactory to firstenergy. management of firstenergy has been and may continue to be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the fes bankruptcy instead of focusing on firstenergy's business operations, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business plan and operations. additionally, firstenergy's relationship with its employees, suppliers, customers and other parties may be adversely impacted by negative or confusing publicity related to the fes bankruptcy or otherwise and firstenergy's operations could be materially and adversely affected. the fes bankruptcy also may make it more difficult to retain, attract or replace management and other key personnel. we are subject to risks that the conditions to the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement may not be satisfied or the settlement may not otherwise be consummated, which could have a material adverse impact on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows on september 26, 2018, the bankruptcy court approved a fes bankruptcy settlement agreement dated august 26, 2018, by and among firstenergy, the fes key creditor groups, the fes debtors. under the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement, firstenergy agreed to provide the fes debtors a release of substantially all claims related to the fes debtors and their businesses, including for the full borrowings under intercompany financing arrangements and recovery of obligations previously paid under guarantees; payments in the form of cash and new fe notes not to exceed $628 million in aggregate principal amount; the transfer of ae supply's pleasants power station; an offsetting credit for shared services costs; funding for certain employee benefit programs; and continued performance under the intercompany tax sharing agreements, including waiver of an fes overpayment, reversal of a payment made for estimated net operating losses and agreement to pay certain 2018 tax year payments. in exchange, the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement would resolve all outstanding disputes with respect to the claims and causes of action related to the fes debtors and their businesses among firstenergy, on the one hand and the fes debtors, the fes key creditor groups, and the ucc, on the other hand. the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement and the releases granted therein are subject to material conditions, which primarily consist of the issuance of a final order by the bankruptcy court approving the plan or plans of reorganization for the fes debtors acceptable to firstenergy. there can be no assurance that the conditions to the settlement agreement will be satisfied or that the settlement will otherwise be consummated, and the actual outcome of this matter may differ materially from the terms of the agreement described herein. if the settlement were not consummated, the fes debtors or their creditors could assert various claims against firstenergy, while firstenergy's ability to recover any value from obligations owed it by the fes debtors, secured or otherwise, may be limited. in the event the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement is not fully consummated, the costs of potential liabilities resulting from the fes bankruptcy could have a material and adverse impact on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. adverse developments related to the fes bankruptcy could trigger events of default under certain firstenergy obligations firstenergy's credit facilities contain various events of default, including with respect to the borrowers or significant subsidiaries (each as defined in the credit agreements), a bankruptcy or insolvency of firstenergy, the failure to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any indebtedness in excess of $100 million, or the failure to satisfy any judgment or order for the payment of money exceeding any applicable insurance coverage by more than $100 million. although the fes debtors are not significant subsidiaries for these purposes, it is possible that an adverse development related to the fes bankruptcy could otherwise trigger an event of 22 default under the firstenergy credit facilities if creditors of the fes debtors asserted successful claims against fe or our significant subsidiaries. certain events in connection with the disposition of competitive generation assets may significantly increase cash flow and liquidity risks and have a material adverse effect on results of operations and the financial condition of firstenergy as part of the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement, ae supply entered into a definitive agreement on december 31, 2018, to transfer the 1,300 mw pleasants power station and related assets to fg, while retaining certain specified liabilities. after closing, ae supply will continue to provide access to the mcelroy's run ccr impoundment facility, which is not being transferred, and fe will provide certain guarantees for retained environmental liabilities of ae supply, including the mcelroy's run ccr impoundment facility. the transfer is subject to various customary and other closing conditions, including the bankruptcy court's approval of the definitive transfer agreement, effectiveness of the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement and the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization for the fes debtors in connection with the fes bankruptcy. liabilities incurred under these guarantees could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of firstenergy. further, as part of ae supply's sale of gas generation assets to a subsidiary of ls power, fe provided two limited three-year guarantees totaling $555 million of certain obligations of ae supply and agc arising under the purchase agreement. liabilities incurred under these guarantees could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of fe. if our "fe tomorrow" organizational realignment plans do not achieve the expected benefits, there could be negative impacts to firstenergy's business, results of operations and financial condition in support of the strategic review to exit commodity-exposed generation, management launched the fe tomorrow initiative to define firstenergy's future organization to support its regulated business. fe tomorrow is intended to align corporate services to efficiently support the regulated operations by ensuring that firstenergy has the right talent, organizational and cost structure to achieve our earnings growth targets. in support of the fe tomorrow initiative, in june and early july 2018, nearly 500 employees in the shared services and utility services and sustainability organizations, which was more than 80% of the eligible employees, accepted a voluntary enhanced retirement package, which included severance compensation and a temporary pension enhancement, with most employees retiring by december 31, 2018. management expects the cost savings resulting from the fe tomorrow initiative to support the company's growth targets. there can be no assurance that these organizational changes will result in the anticipated benefits to firstenergy's business, results of operations and financial condition in a timely manner if at all. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from fe tomorrow within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. further, during and following completion of fe tomorrow, firstenergy could experience unexpected delays in and business disruptions resulting from supporting these initiatives, decreased productivity, higher than anticipated costs, adverse effects on employee morale and employee turnover, including the possible loss of valuable employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated results or otherwise harm firstenergy's business, results of operations and financial condition. risks associated with regulation we have taken a series of actions to focus on growing our regulated distribution and transmission operations. whether this investment strategy will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future we focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our regulated distribution and transmission operations as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. the success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments include: (1) ferc's timely approval of rates to recover such investments; (2) whether the investments are included in pjm's rtep; (3) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (4) ferc's evolving policies with respect to the calculation of the base roe component of transmission rates; (5) consideration of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (6) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. the success of these efforts will also depend, in part, on any future distribution rate cases or other filings seeking cost recovery for distribution system enhancements in the states where our utilities operate and transmission rate filings at ferc. any denial of, or delay in, the approval of any future distribution or transmission rate requests could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risks on the regulated transmission and regulated distribution operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy and results of operations. our efforts also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that our efforts to reflect a more regulated business profile will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 23 any subsequent modifications to, denial of, or delay in the effectiveness of the puco's approval of the dmr could impose significant risks on firstenergy's operations and materially and adversely impact the credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy the ohio companies' rider dmr provides for the collection of $132.5 million annually for three years through 2019 with a possible extension for an additional two years, which was filed for on february 1, 2019. rider dmr will be grossed up for federal income taxes, resulting in an approved amount of approximately $168 million annually in 2019. various parties have appealed the puco's denial of subsequent applications for rehearing to the ohio supreme court. on february 1, 2019, the ohio companies filed with the puco an application requesting a two-year extension of rider dmr at the same amount and conditions. any subsequent modification to, denial of, or delay in the effectiveness of, the puco's order approving the dmr could impose risks on our operations and materially and adversely impact the credit ratings, results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy. complex and changing government regulations, including those associated with rates and rate cases and restrictions and prohibitions on certain business dealings could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. our transmission and operating utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by ferc or by a state regulatory commission in which the utility operates. also, these rates may not be set to recover such utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. in addition, as a u.s. corporation, we are subject to u.s. laws, executive orders, and regulations administered and enforced by the u.s. department of treasury and the department of justice restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). if any of our existing or future operations or investments, including our joint venture investment in signal peak, are subsequently determined to involve such prohibited parties we could be in violation of certain covenants in our financing documents and unless we cease or modify such dealings, we could also be in violation of such u.s. laws, executive orders and sanctions regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition each of the utilities' retail rates are set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in ohio by the puco, in new jersey by the njbpu, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc - through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs; and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities will be granted in whole or in part. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. 24 federal rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial or reduction of, or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with cost-of-service-based wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected or if there is any resulting delay in cost recovery, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future earnings and cash flows, and impact our financial condition. there are multiple matters pending before ferc. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings and an adverse result could have an adverse impact on firstenergy's results of operations and business conditions. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos. although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by ferc, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the markets function appropriately. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm tariff. we incur fees and costs to participate in rtos. administrative costs imposed by rtos, including the cost of administering energy markets, may increase. to the degree we incur significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an rto and are limited with respect to recovery of such costs from retail customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be significantly impacted. we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings before ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. the business operations of our subsidiaries that sell wholesale power are subject to regulation by ferc and could be adversely affected by such regulation ferc granted the utilities and ae supply authority to sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services at market-based rates. these orders also granted waivers of certain ferc accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as, for certain of these subsidiaries, waivers of the requirements to obtain ferc approval for issuances of securities. ferc's orders that grant this market-based rate authority reserve with ferc the right to revoke or revise that authority if ferc subsequently determines that these companies can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry or have engaged in prohibited affiliate transactions. in the event that one or more of firstenergy's market-based rate authorizations were to be revoked or adversely revised, the affected firstenergy subsidiaries may be subject to sanctions and penalties and would be required to file with ferc for authorization of individual wholesale sales transactions, which could involve costly and possibly lengthy regulatory proceedings and the loss of flexibility afforded by the waivers associated with the current market-based rate authorizations. 25 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce peak demand and energy consumption. such conservation programs could result in load reduction and adversely impact our financial results in different ways. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. currently, only our ohio companies recover lost distribution revenues that result between distribution rate cases. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we have already been adversely impacted by reduced electric usage due in part to energy conservation efforts such as the use of efficient lighting products such as cfls, halogens and leds. we could also be adversely impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, failure to meet regulatory or legislative requirements to reduce energy consumption or otherwise increase energy efficiency could result in penalties that could adversely affect our financial results. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements could negatively affect our costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including material increases in rec purchase costs, purchased power costs and capital expenditures. such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in local, state or federal tax laws applicable to us or adverse audit results or tax rulings, and any resulting increases in taxes and fees, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows firstenergy is subject to various local, state and federal taxes, including income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. we exercise significant judgment in calculating such tax obligations, booking reserves as necessary to reflect potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions we have taken and utilizing tax benefits, such as carryforwards and credits. additionally, various tax rate and fee increases may be proposed or considered in connection with such changes in local, state or federal tax law. we cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, or whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by legislatures or regulatory bodies. any such changes, or any adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by firstenergy or its subsidiaries could have a negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, in december 2017, congress passed the tax act. various state regulatory proceedings have been initiated to investigate the impact of the tax act on the utilities' rates and charges. firstenergy continues to work with state regulatory commissions to determine appropriate changes to customer rates and, beginning in the first quarter of 2018, began to track and apply regulatory accounting treatment for the expected rate impact of changes in current taxes resulting from the tax act. ferc also recently took action to address the impact of the tax act on ferc-jurisdictional rates. firstenergy has reflected the impact of changes to current taxes in its stated transmission rates and in its normal update to ferc-jurisdictional formula transmission rates and will continue to work with the commission regarding whether and how ferc should address possible changes to transmission and wholesale rates resulting from the tax act. we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new tax regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued, nor is the short-term or long-term impact of the tax act clear. any future reform of u.s. tax laws may be enacted in a manner that negatively impacts our results of operations, financial condition, business operations, earnings and is adverse to fe's shareholders. furthermore, with respect to the utilities and our transmission-owning affiliates, firstenergy cannot predict what, if any, further response state regulatory commissions or ferc may have and the potential response of such authorities regarding the rates and charges of the utilities and our transmission-owning affiliates. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of the epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. 26 the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards during work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. the epa has investigated alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position, but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with new environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions, could adversely affect cash flow and profitability our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to cwa effluent limitations imposing more stringent water discharge regulations, or changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. at the international level, the obama administration submitted in march 2015, a formal pledge for the u.s. to reduce its economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, and in september 2016, joined in adopting the agreement reached on december 12, 2015 at the united nations framework convention on climate change meetings in paris. however, on june 1, 2017, the trump administration announced that the u.s. would cease all participation in the 2015 paris agreement. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, any other legal obligation that requires substantial reductions of ghg emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flow and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. we could be exposed to private rights of action relating to environmental matters seeking damages under various state and federal law theories which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business operations private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other relief. for example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in other actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could result in the need to make modifications to our coal-fired plants or reduce emissions, suspend operations or pay money damages or penalties. adverse rulings in these or other types of actions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could significantly impact our business operations. we are or may be subject to environmental liabilities, including costs of remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. 27 in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigations involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants, in several states. the majority of these claims arise out of alleged past exposures by contractors (and in pennsylvania, former employees) at both currently and formerly owned electric generation plants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at currently owned facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained and properly identified in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including osha. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. this is further complicated by the fact that many diseases, such as mesothelioma and cancer, have long latency periods in which the disease process develops, thus making it impossible to accurately predict the types and numbers of such claims in the near future. while insurance coverages exist for many of these pending asbestos litigations, others have no such coverages, resulting in firstenergy being responsible for all defense expenditures, as well as any settlements or verdict payouts. the risks associated with climate change may have an adverse impact on our business operations, operating results and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. further, as extreme weather conditions increase system stress, we may incur costs relating to additional system backup or service interruptions, and in some instances, we may be unable to recover such costs. for all of these reasons, these physical risks could have an adverse financial impact on our business operations, operating results and cash flows. climate change poses other financial risks as well. to the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional system assets and purchase additional power. additionally, decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased rates, revenues, margins or earnings. future changes in accounting standards may affect our reported financial results the sec, fasb or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. these changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our financial position. risks related to business operations generally temperature variations as well as weather conditions or other natural disasters could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, droughts or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to financial performance risks related to regional and general economic cycles and also related to heavy industries such as shale gas, automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. 28 certain firstenergy companies may not be able to meet their obligations to or on behalf of other firstenergy companies or their affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of one or more firstenergy entities certain of the firstenergy companies have obligations to other firstenergy companies pursuant to transactions involving credit, energy, coal, services and hedging transactions. if one firstenergy entity failed to perform under any of these arrangements, other firstenergy entities could incur losses. their results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected, and such non-performance could result in the non-defaulting firstenergy entity being unable to meet its obligations to unrelated third parties. certain firstenergy companies also provide guarantees to third-party creditors on behalf of other firstenergy affiliate companies under transactions of the types described above, legal settlements or under financing transactions. any failure to perform under such guarantees by such firstenergy guarantor company or under the underlying transaction by the firstenergy company on whose behalf the guarantee was issued could have similar adverse impacts on one or both firstenergy companies or their affiliates. we are subject to risks arising from the operation of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment which could reduce revenues, increase expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results we are committed to provide safe and reliable service and equipment in our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. however, our employees, contractors and the general public may be exposed to dangerous environments due to the nature of our operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment due to various factors, including equipment failure, accidents and weather, could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues, increased capital and operating costs, litigation or the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. our use of non-derivative and derivative contracts to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is limited liquidity of these contracts in the market. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings. these and other matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. further, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will be favorable to us. if certain matters were ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy could be materially adversely impacted. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 29 capital market performance and other changes may decrease the value of pension fund assets and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our retired nuclear generating facility and under pension and opeb plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission firstenergy's retired nuclear generating facility and to pay future pension and other obligations requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the decommissioning, pension and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we are continually challenged to find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. additionally, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions. while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to prevent labor disruptions and retain and/or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. however, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures related to operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. while we anticipate that our operation and maintenance expenses will continue to increase, if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly higher than expected which could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity. our results may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, which could result in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations. cyber-attacks, data security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology systems could compromise our business operations, critical and proprietary information and employee and customer data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we depend on information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. additionally, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. over the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency of cyber-attacks by terrorists, hackers, international activist organizations, countries and individuals. these and other unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our network systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business in many ways, including directly through our network infrastructure or through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. additionally, our information and information technology systems may be increasingly vulnerable to data security breaches, damage and/or interruption due to viruses, human error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other malfunctions and disruptions. further, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and/or security. 30 despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to defeat our security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. also, we may be at an increased risk of a cyber-attack and/or data security breach due to the nature of our business. any such cyber-attack, data security breach, damage, interruption and/or defect could: (i) disable our generation, transmission (including our interconnected regional transmission grid) and/or distribution services for a significant period of time; (ii) delay development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (iii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iv) corrupt data; and/or (v) result in unauthorized access to the information stored in our data centers and on our networks, including, company proprietary information, supplier information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in economic loss and liability and harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. additionally, because our generation, transmission and distribution services are part of an interconnected system, disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, rto, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our operations. although we maintain cyber insurance and property and casualty insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur, including as a result of cybersecurity-related litigation, will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. further, as cyber threats become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, there can be no assurance that we can implement adequate preventive measures, accurately assess the likelihood of a cyber-incident or quantify potential liabilities or losses. also, we may not discover any data security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the data security breach occurs. for all of these reasons, any such cyber incident could result in significant lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers for a significant period of time, the use of significant management resources, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, significant remediation costs, increased regulation, increased capital costs, increased protection costs for enhanced cybersecurity systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our internal controls ineffective, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management policies relating to energy and fuel prices, and counterparty credit, are by their very nature subject to uncertainties, and we could suffer economic losses resulting in an adverse effect on results of operations despite our efforts to manage and mitigate our risks we attempt to mitigate the market risk inherent in our energy, fuel and debt positions. procedures have been implemented to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policies, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analysis and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. nonetheless, we cannot economically hedge all of our exposure in these areas and our risk management program may not operate as planned. as a result, actual events may lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. we have coal-fired generation capacity, which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal, ghgs and ccrs approximately 86% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired, totaling 3,093 mws at mp and 1,367 mws at ae supply (including 1,300 mws at pleasants power station which is pending transfer to fg). historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including ghgs and ccr disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. these legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities and could require our coal-fired generation plants to curtail generation or cease to generate. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity for a significant period of time, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, legal claims or proceedings, 31 greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for execution of extensive capital investments in electric generation, transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our energizing the future transmission expansion program, which has been extended to include up to $4.8 billion in investments from 2018 through 2021. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in, or the adequacy or availability of, the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. changes in technology and regulatory policies may make our facilities significantly less competitive and adversely affect our results of operations traditionally, electricity is generated at large central station generation facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer generation technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in newer generation technologies will make newer generation technologies more cost-effective, or that changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that otherwise make these newer generation technologies even more competitive with central station electricity production. to the extent that newer generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs or the incurrence of additional debt certain firstenergy companies have issued guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. for instance, fe is a guarantor under a syndicated senior secured term loan facility, under which global holding's outstanding principal balance is approximately $190 million at december 31, 2018. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill this obligation and other obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. additionally, with respect to fev's investment in global holding, it could require additional capital from its owners, including fev, to fund operations and meet its obligations under its term loan facility. these capital requirements could be significant and if other partners do not fund the additional capital, resulting in fev increasing its equity ownership and obtaining the ability to direct the significant activities of global holding, fev may be required to consolidate global holding, increasing firstenergy's debt by $190 million. energy companies are subject to adverse publicity causing less favorable regulatory and legislative outcomes which could have an adverse impact on our business energy companies, including firstenergy's utility and transmission subsidiaries, have been the subject of criticism on matters including the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, as well as negative publicity associated with the operation or bankruptcy of nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities or proceedings seeking regulatory recoveries may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. 32 risks associated with financing and capital structure in the event of volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets, our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. in the event of volatility in the capital and credit markets, our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash may be adversely affected. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. should there be fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments, our access to liquidity needed for our business could be adversely affected. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected should there be disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketing of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that are beyond our risk management processes. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would increase our interest expense on certain of firstenergy's long-term debt obligations and would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our regulated businesses by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. any default by customers or other counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money, power, fuel or other commodities could breach their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, which would cause our financial results to be diminished and we might incur losses. some of our agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure all or part of their obligations to firstenergy or its subsidiaries. if the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may have a right to receive the proceeds from the credit support provided, however the credit support may not always be adequate to 33 cover the related obligations. in such event, we may incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties, including by being forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices. although our estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, our actual exposure to a default by customers or other counterparties may be greater than the estimates predict, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on our utility subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. additionally, our utility and transmission subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility and federal commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state and federal commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of our utility and transmission subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. our mandatorily convertible preferred stock will be converted into common stock, in january 2020 and the holders thereof have registration rights. upon conversion of the preferred shares, the number of common shares eligible for future resale in the public market will increase and may result in dilution to common shareholders. this may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock. on january 22, 2018, fe issued $2.5 billion of equity, which included $1.62 billion of mandatorily convertible preferred equity with an initial conversion price of $27.42 per share and $850 million of common equity issued at $28.22 per share. the issuance of common equity created some dilution to existing common holders. the preferred shares contain an optional conversion right, and any remaining preferred shares will mandatorily convert in july 2019, subject to limited exceptions. upon the conversion of the mandatorily convertible preferred stock, additional shares, up to a maximum of 58,964,222 shares, of our common stock will be issued, which results in dilution to our common stockholders, and will increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2018, 911,411 shares of preferred stock have been converted into 33,238,910 shares of common stock at the option of the holders. an additional 494,767 preferred shares were converted into 18,044,018 common shares at the option of the holder in january 2019, resulting in 209,822 preferred shares outstanding and yet to be converted as of january 31, 2019. we cannot assure common and preferred shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine an appropriate dividend each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common or preferred shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. further, the terms of the outstanding preferred stock require that preferred shareholders receive dividends alongside the common shareholders on an as-converted, pro rata basis. the transaction occurring as part of the fes bankruptcy will likely change the tax characterization of our distributions to shareholders when we make distributions to shareholders, we are required to subsequently determine and report the tax characterization of those distributions for purposes of shareholders' income taxes. whether a distribution is characterized as a dividend or a return of capital (and possible capital gain) depends upon an internal tax calculation to determine earnings and profits for income tax purposes (e&amp;p). e&amp;p should not be confused with earnings or net income under gaap. further, after we report the expected tax characterization of distributions we have paid, the actual characterization could vary from our expectation with the result that holders of our common stock could incur different income tax liabilities than expected. in general, distributions are characterized as dividends to the extent the amount of such distributions do not exceed our calculation of current or accumulated e&amp;p. distributions in excess of current and accumulated e&amp;p may be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. generally, a non-taxable return of capital will reduce an investor's basis in our stock for federal tax purposes, which will impact the calculation of gain or loss when the stock is sold . our internal calculation of e&amp;p can be impacted by a variety of factors. we expect that upon the fes debtors' emergence from bankruptcy, firstenergy's accumulated e&amp;p will be eliminated. all else being equal, eliminating accumulated e&amp;p will make it more 34 likely that at least a portion of our current or future distributions will be characterized for shareholders' tax purposes as a return of capital. upon such characterization, shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the income tax treatment of our distributions to them. the recognition of impairments of goodwill and long-lived assets has adversely affected our results of operations and additional impairments could have a material adverse effect on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of firstenergy's securities we have approximately $5.6 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2018. goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of july 31 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. key assumptions incorporated in the estimated cash flows used for the impairment analysis requiring significant management judgment include: discount rates, growth rates, projected operating income, changes in working capital, projected operating capital expenditures, projected funding of pension plans, expected results of future rate proceedings and terminal multiples. we are unable to predict whether further impairments of one or more of our long-lived assets or investments may occur in the future. the actual timing and amounts of any impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets in the future depends on many factors, including interest rates, sector market performance, our capital structure, results of future rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements, and other factors. a determination that goodwill, a long-lived asset, or other investments are impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." 85risk factors 19 risk factors we operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. management regularly evaluates the most significant risks of its businesses and reviews those risks with the board of directors and appropriate committees of the board. the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating firstenergy. these risk factors could affect our financial results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. below, we have identified risks we consider material. additional information on risk factors is included in item 1. business, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and in other sections of this form 10-k that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results. risks associated with regulation we have taken a series of actions to focus on growing our regulated distribution and regulated transmission operations. whether this investment strategy will deliver the desired result is subject to certain risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition we focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our regulated distribution and regulated transmission operations as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. the success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments include: (1) ferc's timely approval of rates to recover such investments; (2) whether the investments are included in pjm's rtep; (3) ferc's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (4) ferc's evolving policies with respect to the calculation of the base roe component of transmission rates; (5) consideration and potential impact of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (6) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities. the success of these efforts will also depend, in part, on any future distribution rate cases or other filings seeking cost recovery for distribution system enhancements in the states where our utilities operate and transmission rate filings at ferc. any denial of, or delay in, the approval of any future distribution or transmission rate requests could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risks on the regulated distribution and regulated transmission operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy, results of operations and financial condition. our efforts also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. there can be no assurance that our efforts to reflect a more regulated business profile will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. complex and changing government regulations and actions, including those associated with rates, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows we are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our utilities and transmission companies currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. thus, the rates the utilities and transmission companies are allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by ferc or by a state regulatory commission in which the utility operates. also, these rates may not be set to recover such applicable utility's expenses at any given time. additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered, if at all. for example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. while rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases. state rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial of or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and financial condition each of the utilities' retail rates are set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in maryland by the mdpsc, in new jersey by the njbpu, in ohio by the puco, in pennsylvania by the ppuc, in west virginia by the wvpsc and in new york by the nypsc - through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. as a result, any of the utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value 19 of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs; and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases. firstenergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the utilities will be granted in whole or in part. any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, to the extent that any of the utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the utility to recover costs. such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, reduce liquidity and increase financing costs. federal rate regulation may delay or deny full recovery of costs and impose risks on our operations. any denial or reduction of, or delay in cost recovery could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition ferc policy currently permits recovery of prudently-incurred costs associated with cost-of-service-based wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. ferc's policies on recovery of transmission costs continue to evolve, evidenced by ongoing proceedings to determine an appropriate roe methodology to determine transmission roes and whether ferc's existing policies on transmission rate incentives should be revised. if ferc were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if there is any resulting delay in cost recovery, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. if ferc were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for firstenergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future earnings and cash flows, and adversely impact our financial condition. we could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards set by nerc/ferc or changes in the rules of organized markets, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by nerc and approved by ferc. the standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. nerc, rfc and ferc can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. ferc has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to direct regulation by ferc, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various rtos and isos that can have a material adverse impact on our business. for example, the independent market monitors of isos and rtos may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the markets function appropriately. such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we receive for, our energy and capacity. in addition, pjm may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet pjm's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the pjm tariff. we may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in rto transmission rate design. we may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an rto rather than our own internal planning processes. various proposals and proceedings before ferc may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. in addition, rtos have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us. as a member of an rto, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that rto's market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the rto that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members. mandatory renewable portfolio requirements, energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates and energy price increases could negatively impact our financial results where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including material increases in rec purchase costs, purchased power costs and capital expenditures. such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce peak demand and energy consumption. such conservation programs could result in load reduction and adversely impact our financial results in different ways. we currently have energy efficiency riders in place in certain of our states to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate. in our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. we have already been adversely impacted by reduced electric usage due in part to energy conservation efforts such as the use of efficient lighting products such as cfls, halogens and leds. we could also be adversely impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. we are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations. additionally, failure to meet regulatory or legislative requirements to reduce energy consumption or otherwise increase energy efficiency could result in penalties that could adversely affect our financial results. the epa is conducting nsr investigations at generating plants that we currently or formerly owned, the results of which could negatively impact our results of business operations, cash flows and financial condition we may be subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of the epa's nsr programs. under the caa, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities. the epa has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of nsr standards during work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. the epa has investigated alleged violations of the nsr standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. we intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position, but we are unable to predict their outcomes. if nsr and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant, and the cost of compliance with new environmental laws, including limitations on ghg emissions related to climate change, could adversely affect cash flows and financial condition our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. these expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. we may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable. moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to ghg emissions, cwa effluent limitations imposing more stringent water discharge regulations, or other changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. in addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce ghg emissions, any legal obligation that requires substantial reductions of ghg emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flows and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. we are or may be subject to environmental liabilities, including costs of remediation of environmental contamination at current or formerly owned facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition we may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. we are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. we also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. remediation activities associated with our former mgp operations are one source of such costs. citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal 21 injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. we cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. in addition, there can be no assurance that any liabilities, losses or expenditures we may incur related to such environmental liabilities or contamination will be covered under any applicable insurance policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. in some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. if the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. the risks associated with climate change may have an adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and cash flows physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. an extreme weather event within the utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. further, as extreme weather conditions increase system stress, we may incur costs relating to additional system backup or service interruptions, and in some instances, we may be unable to recover such costs. for all of these reasons, these physical risks could have an adverse financial impact on our business operations, financial condition and cash flows. climate change poses other financial risks as well. to the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional system assets and purchase additional power. additionally, decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased rates, revenues, margins or earnings. we could be exposed to private rights of action relating to environmental matters seeking damages under various state and federal law theories which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and business operations private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other relief. for example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that co 2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. while firstenergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in other actions making similar allegations. an unfavorable ruling in any such case could result in the need to make modifications to our coal-fired plants or reduce emissions, suspend operations or pay money damages or penalties. adverse rulings in these or other types of actions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could significantly impact our business operations. we are and may become subject to legal claims arising from the presence of asbestos or other regulated substances at some of our facilities that may have an adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and cash flows we have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigations involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants, in several states. the majority of these claims arise out of alleged past exposures by contractors (and in pennsylvania, former employees) at both currently and formerly owned electric generation plants. in addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at currently owned facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. we believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained and properly identified in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including osha. the continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. this is further complicated by the fact that many diseases, such as mesothelioma and cancer, have long latency periods in which the disease process develops, thus making it impossible to accurately predict the types and numbers of such claims in the near future. while insurance coverages exist for many of these pending asbestos litigations, others have no such coverages, resulting in firstenergy being responsible for all defense expenditures, as well as any settlements or verdict payouts. risks related to business operations generally temperature variations as well as severe weather conditions or other natural disasters could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, droughts, high winds or other natural disasters, may 22 cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. the effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to financial performance risks from regional and general economic cycles as well as heavy industries such as shale gas, automotive and steel our business follows economic cycles. economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. the regional economy in which our utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted. we are subject to risks arising from the operation of our power plants and transmission and distribution equipment which could reduce revenues, increase expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results we are committed to provide safe and reliable service and equipment in our franchised service territories. meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. however, our employees, contractors and the general public may be exposed to dangerous environments due to the nature of our operations. failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment due to various factors, including equipment failure, accidents and weather, could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues, increased capital and operating costs, litigation or the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the volatility in pension and opeb expenses due to capital market performance and other changes firstenergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its pension and opeb plans. this adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, such as when the fes debtors emerge from bankruptcy, resulting in greater volatility in pension and opeb expenses and may materially impact our results of operations such as when the fes debtors emerge from bankruptcy. our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations to decommission our retired nuclear generating facility and under pension and opeb plans. certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. if the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission firstenergy's retired nuclear generating facility and to pay future pension and other obligations requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the decommissioning, pension and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. cyber-attacks, data security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology systems could compromise our business operations, critical and proprietary information and employee and customer data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation in the ordinary course of our business, we depend on information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. additionally, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations. 23 over the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency of cyber-attacks by terrorists, hackers, international activist organizations, countries and individuals. these and other unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our network systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business in many ways, including directly through our network infrastructure or through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. additionally, our information and information technology systems may be increasingly vulnerable to data security breaches, damage and/or interruption due to viruses, human error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other malfunctions and disruptions. further, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and/or security. despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory nerc critical infrastructure protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to defeat our security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. also, we may be at an increased risk of a cyber-attack and/or data security breach due to the nature of our business. any such cyber-attack, data security breach, damage, interruption and/or defect could: (i) disable our generation, transmission (including our interconnected regional transmission grid) and/or distribution services for a significant period of time; (ii) delay development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (iii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iv) corrupt data; and/or (v) result in unauthorized access to the information stored in our data centers and on our networks, including, company proprietary information, supplier information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in economic loss and liability and harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. additionally, because our generation, transmission and distribution services are part of an interconnected system, disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, rto, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our operations. although we maintain cyber insurance and property and casualty insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur, including as a result of cybersecurity-related litigation, will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. further, as cyber threats become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, there can be no assurance that we can implement adequate preventive measures, accurately assess the likelihood of a cyber-incident or quantify potential liabilities or losses. also, we may not discover any data security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the data security breach occurs. for all of these reasons, any such cyber incident could result in significant lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers for a significant period of time, the use of significant management resources, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, significant remediation costs, increased regulation, increased capital costs, increased protection costs for enhanced cybersecurity systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our internal controls ineffective, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. we have coal-fired generation capacity, which exposes us to risk from regulations relating to coal, ghgs and ccrs and could lead to increased costs or the need to spend significant resources to defend allegations of violation approximately 82% of firstenergy's generation fleet capacity is coal-fired, totaling 3,160 mws. historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including ghgs and ccr disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. these legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of ghg requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities and could require our coal-fired generation plants to curtail generation or cease to generate. failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements. financial risks associated with owning coal-fired generation may have an adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and cash flows 86% of mp's generation fleet, totaling 3,093 mws, is coal-fired. recently, certain members of the investment community have adopted investment policies promoting the divestment of coal-fired generation or otherwise limiting new investments in coal-fired generation. the impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of our common stock and impact our and mp's access to the capital and financial markets. further, certain insurance companies have established policies limiting coal-related underwriting and investment. consequently, these policies aimed at coal-fired generation could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 24 physical acts of war, terrorism or other attacks on any of our facilities or other infrastructure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition as a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the united states, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity for a significant period of time, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, legal claims or proceedings, greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. capital improvements and construction projects may not be completed within forecasted budget, schedule or scope parameters or could be canceled which could adversely affect our business and results of operations our business plan calls for execution of extensive capital investments in transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our energizing the future transmission expansion program, which has been extended to include up to $7.9 billion in investments from 2018 through 2023. we also anticipate spending $1.7 billion per year in distribution capital expenditures from 2018 through 2023. we may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in, or the adequacy or availability of, the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. we engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. as a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. such risk could include our contractors' inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by firstenergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates. our use of non-derivative and derivative contracts to mitigate risks could result in financial losses that may negatively impact our financial results we may use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our financial market risks. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is limited liquidity of these contracts in the market. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings involving our business, or that of one or more of our operating subsidiaries, is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any material proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations we are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings. these and other matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. further, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will be favorable to us. if certain matters were ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, the results of operations and financial condition of firstenergy could be materially adversely impacted. in addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. we face certain human resource risks associated with potential labor disruptions and/or with the availability of trained and qualified labor to meet our future staffing requirements we are continually challenged to find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. additionally, a significant number of our physical workforce are represented by unions. while we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances 25 that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to prevent labor disruptions and retain and/or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business. significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity we continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. however, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures related to operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of health care and pension costs. we have experienced health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. the measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. these assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. while we anticipate that our operation and maintenance expenses will continue to increase, if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly higher than expected which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. changes in technology and regulatory policies may make our facilities significantly less competitive and adversely affect our results of operations traditionally, electricity is generated at large, central station generation facilities. this method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer generation technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. it is possible that advances in newer generation technologies will make newer generation technologies more cost-effective, or that changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that otherwise make these newer generation technologies even more competitive with central station electricity production. to the extent that newer generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. certain firstenergy companies have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs or the incurrence of additional debt and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition certain firstenergy companies have issued guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such firstenergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. for instance, fe is a guarantor under a syndicated senior secured term loan facility, under which global holding's outstanding principal balance is approximately $ 114 million at december 31, 2019. in the event of non-performance by the third parties, firstenergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill this obligation and other obligations under such guarantees. such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. additionally, with respect to fev's investment in global holding, it could require additional capital from its owners, including fev, to fund operations and meet its obligations under its term loan facility. these capital requirements could be significant and if other partners do not fund the additional capital, resulting in fev increasing its equity ownership and obtaining the ability to direct the significant activities of global holding, fev may be required to consolidate global holding, increasing firstenergy's debt by $ 114 million . energy companies are subject to adverse publicity causing less favorable regulatory and legislative outcomes which could have an adverse impact on our business energy companies, including the utilities and transmission companies, have been the subject of criticism on matters including the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. adverse publicity of this nature, as well as negative publicity associated with the operation or bankruptcy of nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities or proceedings seeking regulatory recoveries may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business. risks related to the fes bankruptcy we are subject to risks relating to the fes bankruptcy as previously disclosed, the fes debtors filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code to facilitate an orderly restructuring. it is possible that as part of the restructuring process, claims may be asserted by or on behalf of the fes debtors against non-debtor affiliates of the fes debtors. any assertions of claims by creditors of the fes debtors against firstenergy may require significant effort, resources, and money to defend or could result in material losses to firstenergy. 26 we can provide no assurance that any such claims, if asserted, will be resolved in accordance with the fe bankruptcy settlement agreement or a manner that is satisfactory to firstenergy. management of firstenergy has been and may continue to be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the fes bankruptcy instead of focusing on firstenergy's business operations, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business plan and operations. additionally, firstenergy's operations, as well as its relationship with its employees, suppliers, customers and other parties, may be materially and adversely impacted by negative or confusing publicity related to the fes bankruptcy or otherwise. the fes bankruptcy also may make it more difficult to retain, attract or replace management and other key personnel. we are subject to risks that the conditions to the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement may not be satisfied or the settlement may not otherwise be consummated, which could have a material adverse impact on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows on september 26, 2018, the bankruptcy court approved a fes bankruptcy settlement agreement dated august 26, 2018, by and among firstenergy, the fes key creditor groups, and the fes debtors, which was subsequentially amended on november 21, 2019 and approved by the bankruptcy court on december 16, 2019. under the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement, firstenergy agreed to provide the fes debtors a release of substantially all claims related to the fes debtors and their businesses, including for the full borrowings under intercompany financing arrangements and recovery of obligations previously paid under guarantees; payments in the form of cash not to exceed $853 million in aggregate principal amount; the transfer of ae supply's pleasants power station; which was completed on january 30, 2020, an offsetting credit for shared services costs; funding for certain employee benefit programs; and continued performance under the intercompany tax sharing agreements, including waiver of an fes overpayment, reversal of a payment made for estimated net operating losses and agreement to pay certain 2018 tax year payments. in exchange, the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement would resolve all outstanding disputes with respect to the claims and causes of action related to the fes debtors and their businesses among firstenergy, on the one hand and the fes debtors, the fes key creditor groups, and the ucc, on the other hand. the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement and the releases granted therein are subject to material conditions. there can be no assurance that the conditions to the settlement agreement will be satisfied or that the settlement will otherwise be consummated, and the actual outcome of this matter may differ materially from the terms of the agreement. if the settlement were not consummated, the fes debtors or their creditors could assert various claims against firstenergy, while firstenergy's ability to recover any value from obligations owed it by the fes debtors, secured or otherwise, may be limited. in addition, if the settlement were not consummated, the costs of additional potential liabilities resulting from the fes bankruptcy could have a material and adverse impact on firstenergy's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain events in connection with the disposition of competitive generation assets may significantly increase cash flows and liquidity risks and have a material adverse effect on results of operations and the financial condition of firstenergy as part of the fes bankruptcy settlement agreement, ae supply entered into a definitive agreement on december 31, 2018, which was approved by the bankruptcy court on march 7, 2019, to transfer the 1,300 mw pleasants power station and related assets to fg, while retaining certain specified liabilities, which transfer was completed on january 30, 2020. ae supply will continue to provide access to the mcelroy's run ccr impoundment facility, which was not transferred. in addition, fe provides certain guarantees for retained environmental liabilities of ae supply, including the mcelroy's run ccr impoundment facility. liabilities incurred under these guarantees could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of firstenergy. further, as part of ae supply's sale of gas generation assets to a subsidiary of ls power, fe provided two limited three-year guarantees totaling $555 million of certain obligations of ae supply and agc arising under the purchase agreement. liabilities incurred under these guarantees could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of fe. risks associated with financing and capital structure in the event of volatility or unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets, our business, including the immediate availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, our ability to meet long-term commitments and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition we rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. we also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. we also deposit cash in short-term investments. in the event of volatility in the capital and credit markets, our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash may be adversely affected. our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 27 should there be fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments, our access to liquidity needed for our business could be adversely affected. unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected should there be disruptions in the capital and credit markets. reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. interest rates and/or a credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' financing costs, ability to access capital and requirement to post collateral we have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketing of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that are beyond our risk management processes. as a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations. we rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. a downgrade in firstenergy or firstenergy subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to a level below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. furthermore, a downgrade could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees associated with such capital. a rating downgrade would increase our interest expense on certain of firstenergy's long-term debt obligations and would also increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. a rating downgrade could also impact our ability to grow our regulated businesses or execute on our business strategies by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital. failure to comply with debt covenants in our credit agreements or conditions could adversely affect our ability to execute future borrowings and/or require early repayment. our debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants including a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65% measured at the end of each fiscal quarter. failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements, which would negatively affect the applicable company's financial condition and liquidity. 28 the anticipated phasing out of libor after 2021 could adversely affect our financial results a portion of firstenergy's indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on libor. libor tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the u.s. federal reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market and general economic conditions. firstenergy has not hedged its interest rate exposure with respect to its floating rate debt. accordingly, firstenergy's interest expense for any particular period will fluctuate based on libor and other variable interest rates. on july 27, 2017, the financial conduct authority (the authority that regulates libor) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unclear whether new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. the u.s. federal reserve, in conjunction with the alternative reference rates committee, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with a newly created index, calculated based on repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the united kingdom, the united states or elsewhere. to the extent these interest rates increase, interest expense will increase. if sources of capital for firstenergy are reduced, capital costs could increase materially. restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. we must rely on cash from our subsidiaries and any restrictions on the utilities and transmission companies' ability to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition we are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. additionally, the utilities and transmission companies are regulated by various state utility and federal commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. those state and federal commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of the utilities and transmission companies to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us. we cannot assure common shareholders that future dividend payments will be made, or if made, in what amounts they may be paid our board of directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine whether to declare a dividend, and an appropriate amount thereof, each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. we cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. the tax characterization of our distributions to shareholders will likely change when we make distributions to shareholders, we are required to subsequently determine and report the tax characterization of those distributions for purposes of shareholders' income taxes. whether a distribution is characterized as a dividend or a return of capital (and possible capital gain) depends upon an internal tax calculation to determine earnings and profits for income tax purposes (e&amp;p). e&amp;p should not be confused with earnings or net income under gaap. further, after we report the expected tax characterization of distributions we have paid, the actual characterization could vary from our expectation with the result that holders of our common stock could incur different income tax liabilities than expected. in general, distributions are characterized as dividends to the extent the amount of such distributions do not exceed our calculation of current or accumulated e&amp;p. distributions in excess of current and accumulated e&amp;p may be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. generally, a non-taxable return of capital will reduce an investor's basis in our stock for federal tax purposes, which will impact the calculation of gain or loss when the stock is sold. our internal calculation of e&amp;p can be impacted by a variety of factors. we expect that firstenergy's accumulated e&amp;p may have been exhausted for the 2019 tax year or will be exhausted upon the fes debtors' emergence from bankruptcy. all else being equal, eliminating accumulated e&amp;p will make it more likely that at least a portion of our current or future distributions will be characterized for shareholders' tax purposes as a return of capital. upon such characterization, shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the income tax treatment of our distributions to them. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a relating to market risk is set forth in item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." 72