quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, mortgage loans and mortgage loans held-for-sale. we utilize derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, in conjunction with our overall strategy to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. we also utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the tables on the following pages provide information at november 30, 2004 and 2003 about our significant derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investments available-for-sale, mortgage loans held-for-sale, mortgage loans and held-to-maturity investments, senior notes, notes and other debts payable, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2004 and 2003. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2004 and 2003. for interest rate swaps, the tables present notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2004 and 2003. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. our limited-purpose finance subsidiaries have placed mortgages and other receivables as collateral for various long-term financings. these limited-purpose finance subsidiaries pay the principal of, and interest on, these financings almost entirely from the cash flows generated by the related pledged collateral and are excluded from the following tables. our trading investments do not have interest rate sensitivity, and therefore, are also excluded from the following tables. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 29 information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2004 years ending november 30, thereafter total fair market value at november 30, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (dollars in millions) assets homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 8.6 8.6 8.6 average interest rate 7.5 % financial services: mortgage loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 238.1 238.1 238.1 average interest rate 6.2 % variable rate $ 209.5 209.5 209.5 average interest rate 5.1 % mortgage loans and held-to-maturity investments: fixed rate $ 31.4 7.9 0.4 1.2 1.3 17.8 60.0 58.6 average interest rate 1.9 % 7.1 % 29.9 % 10.1 % 8.9 % 8.7 % variable rate $ 0.8 0.8 0.7 average interest rate 5.3 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 21.4 14.7 0.1 0.1 274.9 1,170.4 1,481.6 1,727.6 average interest rate 2.6 % 14.8 % 11.0 % 11.0 % 7.6 % 6.7 % variable rate $ 39.4 200.0 300.0 539.4 539.4 average interest rate 4.9 % 2.9 % 3.2 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 896.9 896.9 896.9 average interest rate 2.9 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed-notional amount $ 100.0 130.3 69.7 300.0 22.9 average pay rate 6.7 % 6.8 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor libor 30 information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2003 years ending november 30, thereafter total fair market value at november 30, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 (dollars in millions) assets financial services: mortgage loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 383.2 383.2 383.2 average interest rate 6.1 % variable rate $ 159.3 159.3 159.3 average interest rate 5.0 % mortgage loans and held-to-maturity investments: fixed rate $ 30.6 3.8 6.0 0.6 2.0 15.5 58.5 57.4 average interest rate 1.7 % 4.0 % 10.4 % 23.6 % 10.0 % 9.9 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 15.6 27.6 14.4 1,182.6 1,240.2 1,566.8 average interest rate 5.1 % 9.0 % 15.0 % 7.2 % variable rate $ 5.9 18.1 4.0 4.0 4.0 276.0 312.0 312.0 average interest rate 3.9 % 4.5 % 2.9 % 2.9 % 2.9 % 2.9 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 734.5 0.1 0.1 734.7 734.7 average interest rate 1.8 % 4.9 % 4.9 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed-notional amount $ 100.0 200.0 300.0 33.7 average pay rate 6.7 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor 31quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, mortgage loans and mortgage loans held-for-sale. we utilize derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, in conjunction with our overall strategy to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. we also utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the tables on the following pages provide information at november 30, 2004 and 2003 about our significant derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investments available-for-sale, mortgage loans held-for-sale, mortgage loans and held-to-maturity investments, senior notes, notes and other debts payable, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2004 and 2003. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2004 and 2003. for interest rate swaps, the tables present notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2004 and 2003. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. our limited-purpose finance subsidiaries have placed mortgages and other receivables as collateral for various long-term financings. these limited-purpose finance subsidiaries pay the principal of, and interest on, these financings almost entirely from the cash flows generated by the related pledged collateral and are excluded from the following tables. our trading investments do not have interest rate sensitivity, and therefore, are also excluded from the following tables. 18 table of contents see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2004 (dollars in millions) years ending november 30, thereafter total fair market value at november 30, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 assets homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 8.6 8.6 8.6 average interest rate 7.5 % financial services: mortgage loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 238.1 238.1 238.1 average interest rate 6.2 % variable rate $ 209.5 209.5 209.5 average interest rate 5.1 % mortgage loans and held-to-maturity investments: fixed rate $ 31.4 7.9 0.4 1.2 1.3 17.8 60.0 58.6 average interest rate 1.9 % 7.1 % 29.9 % 10.1 % 8.9 % 8.7 % variable rate $ 0.8 0.8 0.7 average interest rate 5.3 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 21.4 14.7 0.1 0.1 274.9 1,170.4 1,481.6 1,727.6 average interest rate 2.6 % 14.8 % 11.0 % 11.0 % 7.6 % 6.7 % variable rate $ 39.4 200.0 300.0 539.4 539.4 average interest rate 4.9 % 2.9 % 3.2 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 896.9 896.9 896.9 average interest rate 2.9 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed - notional amount $ 100.0 130.3 69.7 300.0 22.9 average pay rate 6.7 % 6.8 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor libor 19 table of contents information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2003 (dollars in millions) years ending november 30, thereafter total fair market value at november 30, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 assets financial services: mortgage loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 383.2 383.2 383.2 average interest rate 6.1 % variable rate $ 159.3 159.3 159.3 average interest rate 5.0 % mortgage loans and held-to-maturity investments: fixed rate $ 30.6 3.8 6.0 0.6 2.0 15.5 58.5 57.4 average interest rate 1.7 % 4.0 % 10.4 % 23.6 % 10.0 % 9.9 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 15.6 27.6 14.4 1,182.6 1,240.2 1,566.8 average interest rate 5.1 % 9.0 % 15.0 % 7.2 % variable rate $ 5.9 18.1 4.0 4.0 4.0 276.0 312.0 312.0 average interest rate 3.9 % 4.5 % 2.9 % 2.9 % 2.9 % 2.9 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 734.5 0.1 0.1 734.7 734.7 average interest rate 1.8 % 4.9 % 4.9 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed - notional amount $ 100.0 200.0 300.0 33.7 average pay rate 6.7 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor 20 table of contentsrisk factors. risk factors relating to our business if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected: downward changes in economic conditions generally or in the market regions where we operate could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. the homebuilding industry has not experienced an economic down cycle in a number of years, which may have resulted in an overvaluation of land and new homes. although the homebuilding business historically has been cyclical, it has not undergone an economic down cycle in a number of years. further, during 2005, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. this has led some people to assert that the prices of land, new homes and the stock prices of homebuilding companies may be inflated and may decline if the demand for land and new homes weakens. a decline in the prices for land and new homes could adversely affect both our revenues and margins. a decline in our stock price could make raising capital through stock issuances more difficult and expensive. federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. recent federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of the federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) and the federal home loan mortgage corporation (freddie mac). these 8 organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. the federal financial institution agencies recently issued proposed interagency guidance on nontraditional mortgage products ( guidance ). if adopted, the guidance will apply to credit unions, to banks and savings associations and their subsidiaries, and to bank and savings association holding companies and their subsidiaries. although the guidance will not apply to independent mortgage companies, it likely will affect the origination operations of many mortgage companies that broker or sell nontraditional mortgage loan products to such entities. if the guidance is adopted, it could reduce the number of potential customers who could qualify for loans to purchase homes from us and others. customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes at times when mortgage-financing costs are high or as credit quality declines. the majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our financial services operations or third-party lenders. in general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality or other issues. if mortgage interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected, our operating results may be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor, materials and suitable land, as well as homebuyers. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some municipalities where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. 9 we may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. changing market conditions may adversely affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, which could reduce our margins. the lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we can bring communities to market can vary significantly. the market value of home inventories, undeveloped land and developed homesites can fluctuate significantly during this time period because of changing market conditions. recently we have been able to sell homes at higher prices than we anticipated when we acquired the land on which they were built, which has helped us to achieve unusually high profit margins. however, in the future, we may need to sell homes or other property at prices that generate lower margins than we anticipate when we purchase land. we may also be required to record material write-downs to our land or home inventories if their market values decline. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales price of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which can have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. if the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as has been discussed recently, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. 10 we may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. our business depends substantially on our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. if we are unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. we may be unable to renew or extend our significant outstanding debt instruments when they mature. our senior unsecured credit facility consists of a $1.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in june 2010 and includes access to an additional $500 million via an accordion feature, under which the facility may be increased to $2.2 billion, subject to additional commitments. in january 2006, we increased the commitment under the credit facility to $2.2 billion via access of the accordion feature. also, our financial services division has warehouse lines of credit totaling $1.3 billion, with borrowings under these lines of credit totaling $1.2 billion at november 30, 2005. these warehouse lines of credit mature in 2006 and 2007. we cannot assure that we will be able to extend or renew these debt arrangements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we are unable to renew or extend these debt arrangements, it could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. we may not be able to identify or integrate suitable acquisition targets, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. additional factors may adversely impact our acquisition growth strategy. our acquisition strategy may require spending significant amounts of capital. if we are unable to obtain sufficient debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we may need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. the competition from our competitors or others pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices of businesses and/or prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. if any of the aforementioned factors cause us to alter our growth strategy, our results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. we could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. we have a stockholder who exercises significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 47% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that gives significant influence to mr. miller in electing our directors and approving most matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions in matters that are contrary to our other stockholders desired actions or interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, in conjunction with our overall strategy to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. we also utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table on the following page provides information at november 30, 2005 about our significant derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investments available-for-sale, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2005. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2005. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2005. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. our limited-purpose finance subsidiaries have placed mortgages and other receivables as collateral for various long-term financings. these limited-purpose finance subsidiaries pay the principal of, and interest on, these financings almost entirely from the cash flows generated by the related pledged collateral and are excluded from the following table. our trading investments do not have interest rate sensitivity, and therefore, are also excluded from the following table. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 31 information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2005 years ending november 30, fair market value at november 30, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total (dollars in millions) assets homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 8.9 8.9 8.9 average interest rate 7.5 % financial services: loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 320.5 320.5 320.5 average interest rate 6.7 % variable rate $ 242.0 242.0 242.0 average interest rate 6.2 % loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 105.3 52.0 4.3 0.2 0.8 15.1 177.7 175.9 average interest rate 6.0 % 6.4 % 7.6 % 11.7 % 6.0 % 8.6 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 1.7 1.9 1.5 average interest rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 27.6 35.3 50.8 297.7 301.6 1,252.0 1,965.0 2,072.9 average interest rate 3.8 % 6.3 % 4.4 % 7.6 % 5.1 % 5.6 % variable rate $ 200.0 96.2 300.0 31.6 627.8 628.0 average interest rate 4.9 % 6.0 % 4.6 % 8.7 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 1,269.8 1,269.8 1,269.8 average interest rate 5.1 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed-notional amount $ 130.3 69.7 200.0 6.7 average pay rate 6.8 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor 32 management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2005. our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein. 33 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited management assessment, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting, that lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on management assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, management assessment that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. also in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2005 of the company and our report dated february 7, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida february 7, 2006 34risk factors. risk factors relating to our business if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected: 9 table of contents downward changes in economic conditions generally or in the market regions where we operate could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. the homebuilding industry has not experienced an economic down cycle in a number of years, which may have resulted in an overvaluation of land and new homes. although the homebuilding business historically has been cyclical, it has not undergone an economic down cycle in a number of years. further, during 2005, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. this has led some people to assert that the prices of land, new homes and the stock prices of homebuilding companies may be inflated and may decline if the demand for land and new homes weakens. a decline in the prices for land and new homes could adversely affect both our revenues and margins. a decline in our stock price could make raising capital through stock issuances more difficult and expensive. federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. recent federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of the federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) and the federal home loan mortgage corporation (freddie mac). these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. the federal financial institution agencies recently issued proposed interagency guidance on nontraditional mortgage products ( guidance ). if adopted, the guidance will apply to credit unions, to banks and savings associations and their subsidiaries, and to bank and savings association holding companies and their subsidiaries. although the guidance will not apply to independent mortgage companies, it likely will affect the origination operations of many mortgage companies that broker or sell nontraditional mortgage loan products to such entities. if the guidance is adopted, it could reduce the number of potential customers who could qualify for loans to purchase homes from us and others. customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes at times when mortgage-financing costs are high or as credit quality declines. the majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our financial services operations or third-party lenders. in general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality or other issues. if mortgage interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected, our operating results may be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor, materials and suitable land, as well as homebuyers. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. 10 table of contents government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some municipalities where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. we may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential 11 table of contents development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. changing market conditions may adversely affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, which could reduce our margins. the lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we can bring communities to market can vary significantly. the market value of home inventories, undeveloped land and developed homesites can fluctuate significantly during this time period because of changing market conditions. recently we have been able to sell homes at higher prices than we anticipated when we acquired the land on which they were built, which has helped us to achieve unusually high profit margins. however, in the future, we may need to sell homes or other property at prices that generate lower margins than we anticipate when we purchase land. we may also be required to record material write-downs to our land or home inventories if their market values decline. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales price of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which can have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual federal, and in some cases state, income taxes, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. if the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as has been discussed recently, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. we may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. our business depends substantially on our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. if we are unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. we may be unable to renew or extend our significant outstanding debt instruments when they mature. our senior unsecured credit facility consists of a $1.7 billion revolving credit facility maturing in june 2010 and includes access to an additional $500 million via an accordion feature, under which the facility may be increased to $2.2 billion, subject to additional commitments. in january 2006, we increased the commitment under the credit facility to $2.2 billion via access of the accordion feature. also, our financial services segment has warehouse lines of credit totaling $1.3 billion, with borrowings under these lines of credit totaling $1.2 billion at november 30, 2005. these warehouse lines of credit mature in 2006 and 2007. we cannot assure that we will be able to extend or renew these debt arrangements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we are unable to renew or extend these debt arrangements, it could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. 12 table of contents we may not be able to identify or integrate suitable acquisition targets, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. additional factors may adversely impact our acquisition growth strategy. our acquisition strategy may require spending significant amounts of capital. if we are unable to obtain sufficient debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we may need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. the competition from our competitors or others pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices of businesses and/or prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. if any of the aforementioned factors cause us to alter our growth strategy, our results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. we could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. we have a stockholder who exercises significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 47% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that gives significant influence to mr. miller in electing our directors and approving most matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions in matters that are contrary to our other stockholders desired actions or interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, in conjunction with our overall strategy to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. we also utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table on the following page provides information at november 30, 2005 about our significant derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investments available-for-sale, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2005. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2005. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates and estimated fair market values at november 30, 2005. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. our limited-purpose finance subsidiaries have placed mortgages and other receivables as collateral for various long-term financings. these limited-purpose finance subsidiaries pay the principal of, and interest on, these financings almost entirely from the cash flows generated by the related pledged collateral and are excluded from the following table. our trading investments do not have interest rate sensitivity, and therefore, are also excluded from the following table. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 39 table of contents information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2005 years ending november 30, fair market value at november 30, 2005 (dollars in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total assets homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 8.9 8.9 8.9 average interest rate 7.5 % financial services: loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 320.5 320.5 320.5 average interest rate 6.7 % variable rate $ 242.0 242.0 242.0 average interest rate 6.2 % loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 105.3 52.0 4.3 0.2 0.8 15.1 177.7 175.9 average interest rate 6.0 % 6.4 % 7.6 % 11.7 % 6.0 % 8.6 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 1.7 1.9 1.5 average interest rate 5.2 % 5.2 % 5.2 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 27.6 35.3 50.8 297.7 301.6 1,252.0 1,965.0 2,072.9 average interest rate 3.8 % 6.3 % 4.4 % 7.6 % 5.1 % 5.6 % variable rate $ 200.0 96.2 300.0 31.6 627.8 628.0 average interest rate 4.9 % 6.0 % 4.6 % 8.7 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 1,269.8 1,269.8 1,269.8 average interest rate 5.1 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed - notional amount $ 130.3 69.7 200.0 6.7 average pay rate 6.8 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor 40 table of contents management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework , our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2005. our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their updated attestation report which is included herein. as described in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, we have restated note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report to report segment information relating to our homebuilding operations on the basis of regions of the country, rather than treating our homebuilding business as a single, national reportable segment. our management has considered its assessment regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting to take account of the restatement, and has concluded that its prior assessment, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2005, is correct. this determination was based upon the fact that management believes that our internal control over financial reporting operated in a manner that provided management with a reasonable basis for their original conclusion with respect to reporting segment information. 41 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited management assessment, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting, that lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on management assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, management assessment that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. also in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2005, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2005 of the company and our report dated february 7, 2006 (august 7, 2006 as to the effects of the restatement discussed in note 4) expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the company restated segment disclosures. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida february 7, 2006 (august 7, 2006 with respect to management discussion of the restatement of the financial statements in the second paragraph of management annual report on internal control over financial reporting) 42 table of contentsrisk factors. if any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected. homebuilding market and economic risks a significant decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes adversely affects our sales volume and pricing. in 2006, the homebuilding industry experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in many of our markets. the decline followed an unusually long period of strong demand for new homes. some of this strong demand resulted from speculators purchasing new homes with the intention of selling them at a profit, rather than with the intention of living in them. in many instances, the speculators do not have the financial resources to retain the purchased homes, and are selling these homes at depressed prices. inventories of new homes have also increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. this combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. we have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control. demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. although the market experienced some increase in mortgage interest rates during 2006, mortgage interest rates remain lower than their historical averages. if mortgage interest rates increase or if any of these other economic factors adversely change nationally, or in the markets where we operate, the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to purchase new homes could be adversely affected and cancellations of pending contracts could further increase, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. 8 increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. during the recent time of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involve significantly lower initial monthly payments. as a result, new homes have been more affordable in recent years. however, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. in addition, if lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders may eliminate some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products or increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. in general, if mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it could become more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which would have an adverse affect on our sales volume. we sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; however, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales and certain limited repurchase obligations in the event of early borrower default. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, the increased inventory of new homes we are currently experiencing requires that we decrease prices in order to attempt to maintain sales volume. this deflation in sales price, in addition to impacting our margins on new homes, also reduces the value of our land inventory and makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land in new home sales prices or, if we choose, to dispose of land assets. in addition, depressed land values may cause us to walk away from deposits on option contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the optioned land. a decline in land values could result in impairment write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased at prices that reflected the recent high demand cycle in the homebuilding industry. as a result, during the fourth quarter of 2006 we recorded material inventory valuation adjustments. if market conditions continue to deteriorate, some of these assets may be subject to future impairment write-downs, decreasing the value of our assets as reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders equity. we face significant competition in our efforts to sell homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. as demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims arising in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. 9 natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. we may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. during the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring additional suitable land could rise, and in some areas no suitable land may be available at reasonable prices. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers. this could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate some of these options, resulting in forfeiture of deposits we made with regard to the options. we may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. our business requires that we are able to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. we currently use our $2.7 billion credit facility to provide some of the financing we need. in addition, we have from time-to-time raised funds by selling debt securities into public and private capital markets. the willingness of lenders to make funds available to us could be affected by reductions in the amounts they are willing to lend to homebuilders generally, even if we continue to maintain a strong balance sheet. if we were unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer materially. our competitive position could suffer if we were unable to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. given current market conditions, executing this strategy by identifying opportunities to purchase at favorable prices companies that are having problems contending with the current difficult homebuilding environment may be particularly important. not properly executing this strategy could put us at a disadvantage in our efforts to compete with other major homebuilders who are able to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities. 10 our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. at present, our access to capital is enhanced by the fact that our senior debt securities have an investment-grade credit rating from each of the principal credit rating agencies. if we were to lose our investment-grade credit rating for any reason, it would become more difficult and costly for us to access the capital that is required in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. we might have difficulty integrating acquired companies into our operations. the integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. the performance of our joint venture partners is important to the continued success of our joint venture strategies. our joint venture strategy depends in large part on the ability of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. we could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. our financial services segment could have difficulty financing its activities. our financial services segment has warehouse lines of credit totaling $1.4 billion. it uses those lines to finance its lending activities until it accumulates sufficient mortgage loans to be able to sell them into the capital markets. these warehouse lines of credit mature in september 2007 ($700 million) and in april 2008 ($670 million). if we are unable to renew or extend these debt arrangements when they mature, our financial services segment mortgage lending activities may be adversely affected. regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. recent federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of the federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) and the federal home loan mortgage corporation (freddie mac). these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. the federal financial institution agencies recently issued their final interagency guidance on nontraditional mortgage products ( guidance ). this guidance applies to credit unions, banks and savings associations and their subsidiaries, and bank and savings association holding companies and their subsidiaries. although the guidance does not apply to independent mortgage companies, it likely will affect the origination operations of many mortgage companies that broker or sell nontraditional mortgage loan products to such entities. this guidance could reduce the number of potential customers who could qualify for loans to purchase homes from us and others. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow 11 growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. if the federal government or a state government changes income tax laws, as has been discussed recently, to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 49% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that probably gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions in matters that are contrary to our other stockholders desires. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, in conjunction with our overall strategy to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. we also utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table on the following page provides information at november 30, 2006 about our significant derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investments available-for-sale, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2006. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2006. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2006. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. our trading investments do not have interest rate sensitivity, and therefore, are also excluded from the following table. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 40 information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2006 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total (dollars in millions) assets financial services: loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 331.4 331.4 331.4 average interest rate 7.0 % 7.0 % variable rate $ 152.3 152.3 152.3 average interest rate 6.8 % 6.8 % loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 218.7 3.6 5.7 4.3 0.3 14.8 247.4 245.4 average interest rate 5.8 % 7.4 % 9.5 % 6.8 % 9.2 % 8.5 % 6.1 % variable rate $ 0.1 1.7 1.8 1.8 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.1 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 62.0 6.0 278.0 317.9 249.4 1,344.9 2,258.2 2,270.9 average interest rate 2.6 % 7.9 % 7.6 % 5.3 % 6.0 % 5.8 % 5.9 % variable rate $ 25.3 30.0 300.0 355.3 355.3 average interest rate 9.6 % 9.3 % 6.1 % 6.7 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 1,149.0 0.1 0.1 1,149.2 1,149.2 average interest rate 6.1 % 7.1 % 7.2 % 6.1 % other financial instruments homebuilding liabilities: interest rate swaps: variable to fixed notional amount $ 130.3 69.7 200.0 2.1 average pay rate 6.8 % 6.8 % 6.8 % average receive rate libor libor 41 management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2006. our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2006 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein. 42 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited management assessment, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting, that lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2006, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on management assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, management assessment that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. also in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2006, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2006 of the company and our report dated february 8, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida february 8, 2007 43risk factors. the following risks may cause a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. homebuilding market and economic risks the homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. a continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. the homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. as a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. homebuilders inventories of unsold new homes have increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. in addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes, has depressed prices and reduced margins. this combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. for example, in 2007 we experienced a significant decline in our sales results, significant reductions in our margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions, and a higher than normal cancellation rate. we have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing. demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. during 2007, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. as a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. although our finance company subsidiaries offer mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. unavailability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including in some instances causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. during the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry prior to 2006, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. as a result, new homes became more affordable. however, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. in an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. in addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. in general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse affect on our sales volume. 9 land prices can be extremely volatile and our business requires that we invest in land positions well in advance of sales of finished homes on land we have acquired. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of the land we own and in investments in unconsolidated entities, and a continuing decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased at high prices. also, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that no longer are attractive, and in connection with those options we made non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, agreed to incur pre-acquisition land development costs. when demand fell, we were required to take substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition land development costs. additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities. a majority of the valuation adjustments related to sfas 144 valuation adjustments on assets of our unconsolidated entities. furthermore, we recorded valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities in accordance with apb 18. the combination of land value write-downs and forfeitures in addition to valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities had a material negative effect on our operating results for fiscal 2006 and 2007, resulting in a loss for fiscal 2007. if market conditions continue to deteriorate, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, decreasing the assets reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders equity. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increasing them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. that makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and has contributed to the significant reductions in the value of our land inventory. we face significant competition in our efforts to sell homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. as demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims arising in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. 10 natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate a number of these options, resulting in significant forfeitures of deposits we made with regard to the options. if our financial performance further declines, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and senior debt securities. our credit facility imposes certain restrictions on our operations. the most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. in addition, our credit facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. also, because we currently do not have investment grade debt ratings, we can only borrow up to specified percentages of the book values of various types of our assets, referred to in the credit agreement as our borrowing base. our operating results and the asset write-downs we recorded during fiscal 2007 caused our tangible net worth to be below the minimum required by the credit agreement and caused our borrowing base to be below the level necessary for us to borrow the full amount we expect to need for our operations. in january 2008, we completed an amendment to the credit facility that modified the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and restructured the borrowing base, effective as of november 30, 2007. under this amendment, the commitment was reduced to $1.5 billion. the amendment limits the amount of permissible joint venture recourse obligations, requiring that those obligations be reduced quarterly through the end of our 2009 fiscal year. failure to reduce such obligations in accordance with the agreed-upon schedule would constitute a violation of the terms of the amended credit facility. while $1.5 billion of borrowing capacity should be sufficient in the current depressed market, if markets strengthen, we might have to seek increased borrowing capacity. while we currently are in compliance with the financial covenants in the amended credit agreement, if we had to record significant impairments in the future, they could cause us to fail to comply even with the amended credit agreement debt covenants. in addition, if we default in the payment or performance of certain obligations relating to the debt of unconsolidated entities above a specified threshold amount, we would be in default under the amended credit agreement. either of those events would give the lenders the right to cause any amounts we owe under that credit facility to become immediately due. if we were unable to repay the borrowings when they became due, that could entitle the holders of $2.2 billion of debt securities we have sold into the capital markets to cause the sums evidenced by those debt securities to become due immediately. we would not be able to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below the fair values, and the carrying values, of the assets. 11 failure to comply with the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement in our credit facility is also a default under the $600 million conduit facility of our financial services segment. if recording significant impairments in the future caused us not to comply with the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth covenant in our credit facility, the lender under the $600 million conduit facility would have the right to terminate that conduit facility and cause any amounts we owe under the conduit facility to become due immediately. if we were unable to pay those borrowings when they become due, that could entitle holders of the debt securities we have sold into the capital markets to cause the sums evidenced by those debt securities to become due immediately. we may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. our business depends upon our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. we currently use our credit facility to provide some of the financing we need. in addition, we have from time-to-time raised funds by selling debt securities into public and private capital markets. as is noted above, a recent amendment to our credit agreement reduced the commitment from $3.1 billion to $1.5 billion. the willingness of lenders to make funds available to us has been affected both by factors relating to us as a borrower, and by a decrease in the willingness of banks and other lenders to lend to homebuilders generally. if we were unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer materially. our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. our ability to access capital on favorable terms has been an important factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. recently, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit rating, which will make it more difficult and costly for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. if we are subject to a further downgrade, it would exacerbate such difficulties. the credit facilities of our financial services segment will expire in 2008. our financial services segment has a conduit and warehouse facility totaling $1.0 billion, recently reduced from $1.1 billion in order to obtain a waiver of a financial covenant. it uses those facilities to finance its lending activities until it accumulates sufficient mortgage loans to be able to sell them into the capital markets. the lines of credit consist of a conduit facility, that matures in june 2008 ($600 million) and a warehouse facility that matures in april 2008 ($425 million). in the past, we have been able to obtain renewals of these facilities at the times of their maturities. if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature in april and june 2008, it could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment. the risk of inability to renew or replace these facilities may be more significant if, as currently is the case, capital market participants are reluctant to purchase securities backed by residential mortgages. our competitive position could suffer if we were unable to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. given current market conditions, executing this strategy by identifying opportunities to purchase at favorable prices companies that are having problems contending with the current difficult homebuilding environment may be particularly important. not properly executing this strategy could put us at a disadvantage in our efforts to compete with other major homebuilders who are able to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities. we may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. we currently believe that we are likely to have sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the benefit of all of our deferred tax assets (consisting primarily of valuation adjustments, reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible for tax purposes, as well as operating loss carryforwards from losses we incurred during fiscal 2007). however, some or all of these deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to take advantage of them or we enter into transactions that limit our right to use them. if it became more likely than not that deferred tax assets would expire unused, we would have to create a valuation allowance to reflect this fact, which could materially increase our income tax expense, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which it is recorded. 12 we might have difficulty integrating acquired companies into our operations. the integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. we conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners failure to fulfill their obligations. for a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. however, as the homebuilding market deteriorated in 2006 and 2007, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. our joint venture strategy depends in large part on the ability of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have been given the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures obligations. however, particularly if our joint venture partners are having financial problems, we may have difficulty collecting the sums they owe us, and therefore, we may be required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. in addition, because we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures, we are usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. as a result, without joint venture partner consent, we may be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. even if we are able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation may be insufficient to cover the costs we have incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. during 2007, we began to reduce the number of joint ventures in which we participate and the recourse indebtedness of such joint ventures. however, the risks to us from joint ventures in which we are a participant are likely to continue at least as long as the value of residential properties continues to decline. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. some of the unconsolidated entities debt arrangements contain certain financial covenants. additionally, certain joint venture loan agreements have minimum number of homesite takedown requirements in which the joint ventures are required to sell a minimum amount of homesites over a stated amount of time. due to the deterioration of the homebuilding market, we are generally in the process of repaying, refinancing, renegotiating or extending our joint venture loans. this action may be required, for example, in the case of an expired maturity date or a failure to comply with the loan covenants. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully finance, refinance, renegotiate or extend, on terms we deem acceptable, all of the joint venture loans that we are currently in the process of negotiating. if we were unsuccessful in these efforts, we could be required to repay one or more of these loans. we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. as a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value. 13 if our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans or fund them ourselves. we sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. if there is a decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and we could be required to fund our commitments to our buyers with our own financial resources or require our buyers to find other sources of financing. our financial services segment could be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. a majority of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes adversely affects the financial results of this segment of our business. we may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. for a number of years, we experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. that increased the price we had to pay to acquire land. then, when demand for new homes began to drop beginning in 2006, we started to reduce our land inventory to bring it in line with the reduced rate at which we were absorbing land into our operations. while the current low demand for new single family homes is making it possible to purchase land at prices far below those we were required to pay prior to 2006, in the long term, competition for suitable land is likely to increase again, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring additional suitable land could rise, and in some areas suitable land may not be available at reasonable prices. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers. this could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. recent federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of the federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) and the federal home loan mortgage corporation (freddie mac). these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction 14 materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations under current tax law and policy. if the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 49% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions in matters that are contrary to our other stockholders desires. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table on the following page provides information at november 30, 2007 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2007. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2007. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 51 information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2007 years ending november 30, thereafter total fair value at november 30, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (dollars in millions) assets financial services: loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 281.5 281.5 281.5 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.1 % variable rate $ 12.0 12.0 12.0 average interest rate 6.4 % 6.4 % loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 162.7 5.5 4.5 0.5 0.6 17.9 191.7 192.4 average interest rate 1.8 % 9.3 % 6.9 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.4 % 2.9 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 6.9 7.3 6.8 average interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 32.5 281.6 299.8 249.5 1,345.6 2,209.0 1,819.1 average interest rate 2.3 % 7.6 % 5.1 % 6.0 % 5.8 % 5.9 % variable rate $ 57.7 22.9 5.8 86.4 86.4 average interest rate 7.3 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 7.6 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 541.3 0.1 541.4 541.4 average interest rate 5.5 % 6.9 % 5.5 % 52 management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2007. the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2007 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein. 53 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) as of november 30, 2007, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2007, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2007 of the company and our report dated january 29, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida january 29, 2008 54risk factors. the following risks may cause a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. homebuilding market and economic risks the homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. a continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. the homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. as a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. homebuilders inventories of 8 table of contents unsold new homes have increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. in addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes (including foreclosed homes), has depressed prices and reduced margins. this combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. in 2007 and 2008, we experienced a significant decline in our sales results, significant reductions in our margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions, and a higher than normal cancellation rate. we have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment. demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. during 2007 and 2008, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. as a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. although our finance company subsidiaries offer mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. lack of availability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including in some instances causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. there has also been a substantial loss of jobs in the united states during 2008. people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs are unlikely to purchase new homes and may be forced to try to sell the homes they owned. therefore, the current employment situation can adversely affect us both by reducing demand for the homes we build and by increasing the supply of homes for sale. mortgage defaults by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products are increasing the number of homes available for resale. during the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages that involved at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. as a result, new homes became more affordable. however, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers have defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which has increased the inventory of homes available for resale. this is likely to continue. foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. in an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. in addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. in general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse effect on our sales volume. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of the land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a continuing decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased at high prices. also, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that no longer are attractive, and in connection with those options we made non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, agreed to incur pre-acquisition land development costs. when demand fell, we were required to take substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition land development costs. 9 table of contents additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities. the valuation adjustments were sfas 144 valuation adjustments to assets of our unconsolidated entities and apb 18 valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities. the combination of land value write-downs and forfeitures in addition to valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities had a material negative effect on our operating results for fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, contributing to most of our net losses in fiscal 2007 and 2008. if market conditions continue to deteriorate, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, decreasing the assets reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders equity. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increasing them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. that makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and has contributed to the significant reductions in the value of our land inventory. we face significant competition in our efforts to sell homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. as demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live and competition with foreclosed homes, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims arising in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate a number of these options, resulting in significant forfeitures of deposits we made with regard to the options. if our financial performance further declines, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and senior debt securities. our credit facility imposes certain restrictions on our operations. the most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. in addition, our credit facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. also, because we currently do not have investment grade debt ratings, we can only borrow up to specified percentages of the book values of various types of our assets, referred to in the credit agreement as our borrowing base. in january and november 2008, we completed amendments to the credit facility that modified the minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and restructured the borrowing base among other changes. the amendments also limit the amount of permissible joint venture recourse obligations, requiring that those obligations be reduced quarterly through july 2011. under the november 2008 amendment, the commitment was reduced from $1.5 billion to $1.1 billion. while $1.1 billion of borrowing capacity should be sufficient in the current depressed market, if markets strengthen, we might have to seek increased borrowing capacity. while we currently are in compliance with the financial covenants in the amended credit agreement, if we had to record significant additional impairments in the future, they could cause us to fail to comply with the amended credit agreement debt covenants. in addition, if we default in the payment or performance of certain obligations relating to the debt of unconsolidated entities above a specified threshold amount, we would be in default under the amended credit agreement. either of those events would give the lenders the right to cause any amounts we owe under that credit facility to become immediately due. if we were unable to repay the borrowings when they became due, that could entitle the holders of $2.2 billion of debt securities we have sold into the capital markets to cause the sums evidenced by those debt securities to become due immediately. we would not be able to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below the long term fair values, and the carrying values, of the assets. we may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. our business depends upon our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. we currently use our credit facility to provide some of the financing we need. in addition, we have from time-to-time raised funds by selling debt securities into public and private capital markets although this would be difficult to do under current market conditions. as is noted above, a recent amendment to our credit agreement reduced the commitment to $1.1 billion. the willingness of lenders to make funds available to us has been affected both by factors relating to us as a borrower, and by a decrease in the willingness of banks and other lenders to lend to homebuilders generally. if we were unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer materially. 11 table of contents our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. our ability to access capital on favorable terms has been an important factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. recently, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit rating, and we no longer have investment grade ratings. this will make it more difficult and costly for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. if we are subject to a further downgrade, it would exacerbate such difficulties. the credit facilities of our financial services segment will expire in 2009. our financial services segment has a syndicated warehouse repurchase facility, which matures in april 2009 ($125 million, plus a $50 million temporary accordion feature that expired in december 2008) and a warehouse repurchase facility, which matures in june 2009 ($150 million). the financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans are sold to investors and expects both facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature in april 2009 and june 2009, it could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment. the risk of inability to renew or replace these facilities may be significant if, as currently is the case, capital market participants are reluctant to purchase securities backed by residential mortgages. our competitive position could suffer if we were unable to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. given current market conditions, executing this strategy by identifying opportunities to purchase at favorable prices companies that are having problems contending with the current difficult homebuilding environment may be particularly important. not properly executing this strategy could put us at a disadvantage in our efforts to compete with other major homebuilders who are able to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities. we might have difficulty integrating acquired companies into our operations. the integration of operations of acquired companies with our operations, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. we conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners failure to fulfill their obligations. for a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. however, as the homebuilding market deteriorated from 2006 through 2008, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. our joint venture strategy depends in large part on the ability of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have been given the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures obligations. however, particularly if our joint venture partners are having financial problems, we may have difficulty collecting the sums they owe us, and therefore, we may be 12 table of contents required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. in addition, because we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures, we are usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. as a result, without joint venture partner consent, we may be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. even if we are able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation may be insufficient to cover the costs we have incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. during 2007 and 2008, we began to reduce the number of joint ventures in which we participate and the recourse indebtedness of such joint ventures. however, the risks to us from joint ventures in which we are a participant are likely to continue at least as long as the value of residential properties continues to decline. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. some of the unconsolidated entities debt arrangements contain financial covenants they may not be able to meet. additionally, certain joint venture loan agreements have minimum number of homesite takedown requirements in which the joint ventures are required to sell a minimum amount of homesites over a stated amount of time. due to the deterioration of the homebuilding market, many of the joint ventures are in the process of repaying, refinancing, renegotiating or extending our joint venture loans. this action may be required, for example, in the case of an expired maturity date or a failure to comply with the loan covenants. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully finance, refinance, renegotiate or extend, on terms we deem acceptable, all of the joint venture loans that we are currently in the process of negotiating. if we were unsuccessful in these efforts, we could be required to repay one or more of these loans. we could be injured by the landsource chapter 11 filing. landsource was the largest joint venture in which we were a participant. originally, we owned 50% of landsource. however, in february 2007, landsource admitted a new strategic partner and landsource was recapitalized, which resulted in a cash distribution to us of $707.6 million, but reduced our ownership to 16%. in connection with the recapitalization, we entered into a new agreement to manage landsource and received land purchase options from landsource. in june 2008, landsource and a number of its subsidiaries commenced proceedings under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. in november 2008, our land purchase options with landsource were terminated (which resulted in us recognizing a deferred profit of $101.3 million, net of $31.8 million of write-offs, related to the 2007 recapitalization). it is possible that landsource will seek to disaffirm our management agreement as well. it is also possible that landsource will seek to recover at least some of what was distributed to us in the recapitalization. we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. as a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value. if our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans or fund them ourselves. we sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. if there is a decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and we could be required to fund our commitments to our buyers with our own financial resources or require our buyers to find other sources of financing. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to the federal national mortgage association ( fannie mae ) and the federal home loan mortgage corporation ( freddie mac ), we would either have to curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or to commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. 13 table of contents our financial services segment could be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. a majority of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes adversely affects the financial results of this segment of our business. if housing markets improve, we may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. for a number of years, we experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. that increased the price we had to pay to acquire land. then, when demand for new homes began to drop beginning in 2006, we started to reduce our land inventory to bring it in line with the reduced rate at which we were absorbing land into our operations. while the current low demand for new single family homes is making it possible to purchase land at prices far below those we were required to pay prior to 2006, in the long term, competition for suitable land is likely to increase again, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring additional suitable land could rise, and in some areas suitable land might not be available at reasonable prices. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers. this could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. changes in federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of fannie mae and freddie mac. these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. 14 table of contents we can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. sometimes our employees have been aware of these practices but did not take steps to prevent them. when we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to our employees who were aware of the practices, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual federal, and in some cases state, taxable income. if the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. recent proposed rule change by hud could negatively impact our operations and revenue. on november 17, 2008, the united states department of housing and urban development ( hud ) issued a final rule ( final rule ) that amended the regulations pertaining to permissible affiliated business arrangements under the real estate settlement procedures act ( respa ). the final rule has the effect of prohibiting homebuilders from providing incentives to their buyers for their buyers to use affiliated businesses. the final rule was to go into effect on january 16, 2009. a lawsuit has been filed against hud alleging among other things that hud did not have the statutory authority to prohibit such incentives. hud has agreed to delay the implementation of the final rule until at least april 16, 2009 in order to give the court time to decide the legality of the final rule. if the final rule is implemented, it could have an adverse impact on our homebuilding, mortgage lending and title company operations. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 49% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders desires. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2008 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2008. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2008. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2008 years ending november 30, thereafter total fair value at november 30, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (dollars in millions) assets financial services: loans held-for-sale, net: fixed rate $ 189.8 189.8 189.8 average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % variable rate $ 0.3 0.3 0.3 average interest rate 8.8 % 8.8 % loans held-for-investment and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 48.1 4.5 0.7 0.8 0.9 15.6 70.6 70.7 average interest rate 1.3 % 6.8 % 8.6 % 8.7 % 8.7 % 8.6 % 3.5 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 6.5 6.9 6.9 average interest rate 7.2 % 7.2 % 7.2 % 7.2 % 7.2 % 7.2 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 301.3 302.5 249.6 346.9 999.4 2,199.7 1,440.5 average interest rate 7.1 % 5.1 % 6.0 % 6.0 % 5.8 % 5.9 % variable rate $ 126.2 155.8 22.6 40.6 345.2 345.2 average interest rate 5.0 % 3.8 % 2.7 % 5.2 % 4.3 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 average interest rate 7.2 % 7.8 % 7.7 % variable rate $ 225.6 225.6 225.6 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 54 table of contents management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2008. the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2008 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein. 55 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) as of november 30, 2008, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2008, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2008 of the company and our report dated january 26, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida january 26, 2009 56 table of contentsrisk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could cause a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. homebuilding market and economic risks the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn. a continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn. as a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. homebuilders inventories of unsold new homes have increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. in addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes (including foreclosed homes), has depressed prices and reduced margins. this combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. in 2008 and 2009, we experienced periods of significant decline in our sales results, significant reductions in our margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions, and a higher than normal cancellation rate. we have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment. demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. during 2008 and 2009, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. as a result of increased default rates, 10 particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. fewer loan products, stricter loan qualification standards and higher down payment requirements have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. although our finance company subsidiaries offer mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. lack of availability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including in some instances causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. there has also been a substantial loss of jobs in the united states during 2008 and 2009. people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs are unlikely to purchase new homes and may be forced to try to sell the homes they own. therefore, the current employment situation can adversely affect us both by reducing demand for the homes we build and by increasing the supply of homes for sale. mortgage defaults by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products are increasing the number of homes available for resale. during the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. as a result, new homes became more affordable. however, as monthly payments for these homes have increased either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers have defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which has increased the inventory of homes available for resale. this is likely to continue. foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. in an environment of declining home prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. in addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. in general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse effect on our sales volume. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of the land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a continuing decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased at high prices and have been written down to fair value as a result of current market conditions. also, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that no longer are attractive, and in connection with those options we made non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, incurred pre-acquisition costs. when demand fell, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities and recorded our share of valuation adjustments relative to assets of our unconsolidated entities. the combination of land inventory impairments, write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities had a material negative effect on our operating results for fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009, contributing to most of our net loss in fiscal 2008 and 2009. if market conditions continue to deteriorate, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, decreasing the assets reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders equity. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. that makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and has contributed to the significant reductions in the value of our land inventory. 11 we face significant competition in our efforts to sell new homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. as demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live and competition with foreclosed homes, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. performance of subcontractors and quality and suitability of building materials. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain raw materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, improper construction processes or defective materials, such as chinese drywall, were used in the construction of our homes. when we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost to the company in complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. 12 reduced numbers of home sales could lead us to absorb additional costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. because of current market conditions, we have had to terminate a number of these options, resulting in significant forfeitures of deposits we made with regard to the options, and in some instances, pre-acquisition costs we incurred with regard to properties that were the subject of options we terminated. if our financial performance further declines, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and senior debt securities. our $1.1 billion credit facility imposes certain restrictions on our operations. the most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets other than in the ordinary course of business, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. in addition, our credit facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. also, because we currently do not have investment grade debt ratings, we can only borrow up to specified percentages of the book values of various types of our assets, referred to in the credit agreement as our borrowing base. our unrestricted cash in excess of $750 million is excluded from our borrowing base. because of these limitations, we were unable to borrow under the credit facility for a majority of 2009. while we currently are in compliance with the financial covenants in the credit facility agreement, it is possible that in fiscal 2010 we will not be in compliance with our covenants if we have significant valuation adjustments and other write-offs during the year, issue debt and/or make significant investments in strategic joint ventures. if we are not in compliance and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment to the credit facility, then it would constitute a default with regard to our credit facility, which would give the lenders the right to terminate the credit facility and require us to replace or cash collateralize $177.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility as of november 30, 2009. if our lenders required us to replace or cash collateralize the letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility and we were unable to do so, that might entitle the holders of $2.2 billion of debt securities we have sold into the capital markets to cause the sums evidenced by those debt securities to become due immediately. we would not be able to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below the fair values, and the carrying values, of the assets. such forced sales would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. our business depends upon our ability to finance the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. we have in the past used our credit facility to finance development activities and we currently use it to provide or secure some of the bonds we need. in addition, we have from time-to-time raised funds by selling debt securities into public and private capital markets, although this is expensive, and could be difficult, to do under current market conditions. the willingness of lenders to make funds available to us has been affected both by factors relating to us as a borrower, and by a decrease in the willingness of banks and other lenders to lend to homebuilders generally. if we were unable to finance the development of our communities, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer materially. our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. our ability to access capital on favorable terms has been an important factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. in 2007 and 2008, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit ratings, and we no longer have investment grade ratings. this makes it more costly, and could make it more difficult, for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. if we are subject to a further downgrade, it would exacerbate such difficulties. 13 increased debt costs will make it more difficult for us to have positive net income. in april 2009, we sold $400 million principal amount of 12.25% senior notes due 2017. during fiscal 2009, we retired approximately $448 million principal amount of senior notes and other debt. the annual interest cost of the debt we retired was approximately $29 million, while the annual interest cost of the notes we sold in april 2009 is approximately $49 million. thus, during the year we increased the annual interest cost of our outstanding debt securities by approximately $20 million. this affected our results of operations in fiscal 2009 and will affect our results in 2010 and subsequent years. it could make it more difficult for us to achieve positive net income. the repurchase warehouse credit facilities of our financial services segment will expire in 2010. our financial services segment has two warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of $200 million and $100 million, respectively, that mature in june 2010 and another warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $125 million that matures in july 2010. the financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans are sold to investors and expects both facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature, it could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment. we conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners failure to fulfill their obligations. for a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. however, as the homebuilding market deteriorated beginning in 2006, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. our joint venture strategy depends in large part on the ability of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have been given the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures obligations. however, particularly if our joint venture partners are having financial problems, we may have difficulty collecting the sums they owe us, and therefore, we may be required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. in addition, because we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures, we are usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. as a result, without joint venture partner consent, we may be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. even if we are able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation may be insufficient to cover the costs we have incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. during 2007, 2008 and 2009, we have significantly reduced the number of joint ventures in which we participate and our exposure to recourse indebtedness of such joint ventures. however, the risks to us from joint ventures in which we are a participant are likely to continue at least as long as the value of residential properties continues to decline. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. some of the unconsolidated entities debt arrangements contain financial covenants they may not be able to meet. additionally, certain joint venture loan agreements have minimum number of homesite takedown requirements in which the joint ventures are required to sell a minimum number of homesites over a stated 14 amount of time. due to the deterioration of the homebuilding market, many of the joint ventures are in the process of repaying, refinancing, renegotiating or extending their loans. this action may be required, for example, in the case of an expired maturity date or a failure to comply with the loan covenants. there can be no assurance that the joint ventures will be able to finance, refinance, renegotiate or extend, on terms we and our joint venture partners deem acceptable, all of the joint venture loans that are currently being renegotiated. if joint ventures are unsuccessful in these efforts, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans. we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. as a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value. if our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans or fund them ourselves. substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. if there is a decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and we could be required to fund our commitments to our homebuyers with our own financial resources or require our homebuyers to find other sources of financing. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to the federal national mortgage association ( fannie mae ) and the federal home loan mortgage corporation ( freddie mac ), we would either have to curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or to commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. our financial services segment is adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. a majority of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes adversely affects the financial results of this segment of our business. if housing markets improve, we may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. for a number of years, we experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets, which increased the price we had to pay to acquire land. then, when demand for new homes began to drop beginning in 2006, we started to reduce our land inventory to bring it in line with the reduced rate at which we were absorbing land into our operations. while the current reduced demand for new homes is making it possible to purchase land at prices far below those we were required to pay prior to 2006, in the long term, competition for suitable land is likely to increase again, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring additional suitable land could rise, and in some areas suitable land might not be available at reasonable prices. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers. this could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. changes in federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of fannie mae and freddie mac. these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. 15 our homebuyers ability to qualify for and obtain affordable mortgages could be impacted by changes in government sponsored entities and private mortgage insurance companies supporting the mortgage market. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac, fha/va sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, could result in a reduction in the ability for homebuyers to qualify for mortgages due to tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger down payments, increased reserves and higher credit scores. higher income requirements could reduce the amount that homebuyers can qualify for when buying new homes. larger down payment requirements and increased asset reserve thresholds could prevent or delay some homebuyers from entering the market. increased credit score requirements could also eliminate a segment of potential homebuyers. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. we can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. sometimes our associates have been aware of these practices but did not take steps to prevent them. when we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to our associates who were aware of the practices, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual federal, and in some cases state, taxable income. if the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. 16 other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 46% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders desires. we may not be able to benefit from net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards. we suffered significant losses in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for both tax and financial statement purposes. we were able to carry back 100% of our 2007 tax loss and most of our 2008 tax loss. however, for our 2009 fiscal year the legislation enacted in november 2009 that expanded the nol carryback to 5 years only allows 50% of taxable income earned in 2004 to be offset with 2009 loss. as such, we will only receive tax benefits with regard to the remainder of the losses that were not carried back, if we have taxable income in the 20 year nol carryforward period. additionally, we have fully reserved against all our deferred tax assets, including our nol carryforward that we were carrying on our financial statements, due to the possibility that we may not have taxable income that will enable us to benefit from them. however, these deferred tax assets will be available to us if we have sufficient future taxable income to take advantage of them. trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards. under the internal revenue code, if there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock during any three-year period caused by more than 5% shareholders, the ability to utilize nol carryforwards are limited to the market value of the company times the long term federal tax exempt rate. this change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without becoming a new majority owner. during the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in our holdings by 5% shareholders. however, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. if that occurred, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2009 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2009. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2009. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2009 years ending november 30, thereafter total fair value at november 30, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (dollars in millions) assets financial services: loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 180.8 180.8 180.8 average interest rate 4.9 % 4.9 % variable rate $ 1.9 1.9 1.9 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 2.0 2.3 0.5 0.6 0.6 14.6 20.6 22.3 average interest rate 2.8 % 2.4 % 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.6 % 7.1 % 6.2 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 6.3 7.0 7.0 average interest rate 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 260.6 259.7 15.1 347.5 269.0 1,148.6 2,300.5 2,293.8 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.9 % 4.9 % 6.0 % 5.7 % 8.1 % 6.9 % variable rate $ 204.0 62.1 133.6 47.8 12.4 1.0 460.9 460.9 average interest rate 2.2 % 5.7 % 3.3 % 3.7 % 5.5 % 3.5 % 3.2 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 average interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % variable rate $ 217.5 $ 0.1 217.6 217.6 average interest rate 4.2 % 8.0 % 4.2 % 64 management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2009. the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2009 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein. 65 report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) as of november 30, 2009, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2009, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2009 of the company and our report dated january 29, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida january 29, 2010 66risk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could cause a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. homebuilding market and economic risks the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn over the last several years. a continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn over the last several years. as a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. this decline in demand, together with an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes (including foreclosed homes), has depressed prices and reduced margins. this combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. in 2008 and 2009, we experienced periods of significant decline in our sales results, significant reductions in our margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions, and a higher than normal cancellation rate. in 2010, our margins improved to closer to normal market levels, but demand continued to be weak and there continued to be a significant stock of used homes, including foreclosed homes. we have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in various homebuilding markets or whether sales volumes or pricing will return to pre-2007 levels. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment. demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. during 2008, 2009 and 2010, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant instability. as a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. fewer loan products, stricter loan qualification standards and higher down payment requirements have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. although our finance company subsidiaries offer mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. lack of availability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including in some instances causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. there has also been a substantial loss of jobs in the united states during the last several years. people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs are unlikely to purchase new homes and may be forced to try to sell the homes they own. therefore, the current employment situation can adversely affect us both by reducing demand for the homes we build and by increasing the supply of homes for sale. mortgage defaults by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products are increasing the number of homes available for resale. during the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. as a result, new homes became more affordable. however, as monthly payments for these homes have increased either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers have defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which has increased the inventory of homes available for resale. this is likely to continue. foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. in an environment of declining home prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. in addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. in general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse effect on our sales volume. 10 table of contents it has become more difficult for potential homebuyers to obtain mortgage financing, which is reducing demand for homes we offer. many lenders and other holders of mortgage loans have been adversely affected in recent years by a combination of reduced ability of homeowners to meet mortgage obligations and reduced value of the homes that secure mortgage loans. as a result, many lenders and secondary market mortgage purchasers have eliminated most of their non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increased the qualifications needed to obtain mortgage loans. in addition, if a home appraises for less than the sales price, a greater down-payment may need to be provided by the potential homebuyer in order to meet the lender requirement or the sales price may need to be reduced. although mortgage interest rates were very low during 2010, the factors that have made mortgage loans more difficult to obtain could lead to higher interest rates on mortgage loans that are made. to the extent lenders make it more difficult or more expensive for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse effect on our sales volume. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of the land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a continuing decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased at high prices and had to be written down to reduced values that reflect current market conditions. also, prior to 2007, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that no longer are attractive, and in connection with those options, we made substantial non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, incurred pre-acquisition costs. when demand fell, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities and recorded our share of adjustments made by unconsolidated entities to the carrying values of their assets. the combination of land inventory impairments, write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities had a material negative effect on our operating results for fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009, contributing to most of our net loss in fiscal 2008 and 2009. write downs were a lot less during 2010, however, if market conditions deteriorate further or our strategy related to certain assets change, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, decreasing the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our stockholders equity. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in the future. an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them, but it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. the effect of cost increases that we cannot recover by increasing prices would be to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. that would make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and could lead to significant reductions in the value of our land inventory. we face significant competition in our efforts to sell new homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, sales by housing speculators and available rental housing. as demand for homes has slowed, competition, including competition with homes purchased for speculation rather than as places to live and competition with foreclosed homes, has created increased downward pressure on the prices at which we are able to sell homes, as well as upon the number of homes we can sell. 11 table of contents operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. performance of subcontractors and quality and suitability of building materials. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain raw materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, improper construction processes or defective materials, such as chinese drywall, were used in the construction of our homes. when we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost to the company of complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewers and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. also, when we have terminated land purchase options, we have forfeited deposits we made with regard to the options, and in many instances, lost the benefit of pre-acquisition costs we incurred with regard to properties that were the subject of the options. we may never recover those costs. 12 table of contents we do not have a corporate credit line. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. in the past we have had a corporate credit facility (with lennar corporation as the borrower and most of our subsidiaries, other than finance company subsidiaries, as guarantors) that we used to help finance development activities. however, because of the decline in our land purchasing, development and building activities, and our ability to obtain debt and equity financing through the capital markets, we have had little need for the credit facility in recent years. therefore, in february 2010, we terminated the credit facility in order to eliminate the cost of maintaining it. while we believe that under current circumstances, the funds we generate through our operations, together with our ability to sell debt and equity securities into capital markets, give us access to all the funds we need, if market conditions lead us to want to increase our homebuilding activities to a level that requires us to incur short-term borrowings, but we are not able to arrange a new credit facility, the absence of a credit facility may prevent us from taking full advantage of market opportunities. we do not have an investment grade credit rating, which makes it more difficult and costly for us to access capital on favorable terms. our ability to access capital on favorable terms has been an important factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. in 2007 and 2008, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit ratings, and as a result we no longer have investment grade ratings. this makes it more costly, and under some circumstances could make it more difficult, for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. despite not having an investment grade rating, during 2010, we were able to sell debt securities in capital market transactions at significantly lower interest rates than prior year. we sold $250 million principal amount of 6.95% senior notes due 2018, $276.5 million of 2.00% convertible senior notes and $446 million of 2.75% convertible senior notes, both due in 2020. the interest rates with regard to that debt are higher than they probably would have been if we had had an investment grade rating. however, unless and until our credit rating improves, our cost of borrowing in capital market transactions will almost always be higher than it would be if we had an investment grade rating. if we were subject to further downgrades, that would exacerbate such difficulties. the repurchase warehouse credit facilities of our financial services segment will expire in 2011. our lennar financial services segment has a warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million and an additional uncommitted amount of $50 million that matures in april 2011, and another warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $175 million that matures in july 2011. the financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans are sold to investors and expects both facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment, unless we are willing and able to provide the funds our financial services segment needs to finance its mortgage originations until the mortgages can be sold. we conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners failure to fulfill their obligations. for a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. however, as the homebuilding market deteriorated beginning in 2006, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. 13 table of contents if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have been given the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures obligations. however, particularly if our joint venture partners are having financial problems, we may have difficulty collecting the sums they owe us, and therefore, we may be required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. in addition, because we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures, we are usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. as a result, without joint venture partner consent, we may be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. even if we are able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation may be insufficient to cover the costs we have incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. during 2007 through 2010, we have significantly reduced the number of joint ventures in which we participate and our exposure to recourse indebtedness of such joint ventures. however, the risks to us from joint ventures in which we are a participant are likely to continue at least as long as the value of residential properties continues to decline. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. some of the unconsolidated entities debt arrangements contain financial covenants they may not be able to meet. additionally, certain joint venture loan agreements have minimum number of homesite takedown requirements in which the joint ventures are required to sell a minimum number of homesites over a stated period of time. due to the deterioration of the homebuilding market, many of the joint ventures are in the process of repaying, refinancing, renegotiating or extending their loans. this action may be required, for example, in the case of an expired maturity date or a failure to comply with the loan covenants. there can be no assurance that the joint ventures will be able to finance, refinance, renegotiate or extend, on terms we and our joint venture partners deem acceptable, all of the joint venture loans that are currently being renegotiated. if joint ventures are unsuccessful in these efforts, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans. we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. as a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value. our financial services segment is adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. a majority of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes adversely affects the financial results of this segment of our business. if our ability to resell mortgages is impaired, we may be required to reduce home sales unless we are willing to become a long term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. after the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. the secondary mortgage market has been severely impacted by the decline in property values over the past several years. to date, our financial company subsidiaries have been able to sell substantially all the mortgages they have originated. if, however we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would either have to curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or to commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. 14 table of contents our financial services segment receives demands that it repurchase mortgage loans it sold in the secondary mortgage market and we may be required to repurchase loans in excess of amounts reserved. particularly during 2008, 2009 and 2010, our financial services segment received demands that it repurchase certain loans that it sold to entities in the secondary mortgage market. the demands have related primarily to loans originated during 2005 through 2007 and are frequently based on assertions that information borrowers gave our financial services segment was not accurate. in many instances, we have successfully disputed the claims. however, in some instances we have settled claims to maintain our business relationships with the claimants or to avoid litigation costs. in other instances, there are active disputes regarding certain loans. while we believe we have significant defenses against virtually all of the currently unresolved repurchase demands, we have established a reserve based upon, among other things, an analysis of repurchase requests received, an estimate of potential repurchase claims not yet received, our actual past repurchases and losses through the disposition of affected loans. at november 30, 2010, this reserve was $9.9 million. if there is an unexpected increase in the amount of repurchase demands we receive, or if we are not able to resolve repurchase demands on a basis consistent with our experience to date, the cost to us with regard to the repurchase demands could exceed the reserve we have established. our rialto segment invests in distressed loans and real estate related assets at significant discounts; however, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly we could suffer losses. almost all the investments to date by our rialto segment have involved acquisitions of portfolios of, or interests in portfolios of, distressed loans and other real estate related assets. that is consistent with the rialto segment objective of focusing on commercial and residential real estate opportunities arising from dislocations in the united states real estate markets and the restructuring and recapitalization of those markets. however, the rialto segment investing in distressed loans and other real estate related assets presents many risks in addition to those inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the anticipated restructuring and recapitalization of the united states real estate markets will not take place for many years, the risk that defaults on debt instruments in which the rialto segment invests will be greater than anticipated and the risk that if the rialto segment has to liquidate its investments into the market, it could suffer losses in doing so. there is also the possibility that, even if the rialto segment investments perform as expected, absence of a liquid market for these investments will result in a need to reduce the value at which they are carried on our financial statements. there is substantial competition for the types of investments on which our rialto segment is focused, and this may limit the ability of the rialto segment to make investments on terms that are attractive to it. our rialto segment currently is focused on investments in distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the dislocations during the last several years in the markets for real estate, mortgage loans and real estate related securities. many of the opportunities to acquire these types of assets arise under programs involving co-investments with and financing provided by agencies of the federal government. there are many firms and investment funds that are trying to acquire the types of assets on which our rialto segment is focused, and it is likely that a significant number of additional investment funds will be formed in the next year or more with the objective of acquiring those types of assets. at least some of the firms with which the rialto segment competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of capital that is lower than that of the rialto segment, and therefore may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for our rialto segment. our rialto segment could be adversely affected by court and governmental responses to improper residential mortgage foreclosure procedures. during recent years it appears that residential mortgage lenders and residential mortgage loan servicers have in a number of instances failed to comply with the requirements for obtaining and foreclosing residential mortgage loans. although our rialto segment owns or manages entities that own large numbers of mortgage loans, those loans all were acquired by our rialto segment and the entities it manages within the past year, and our rialto segment has procedures designed to ensure that any mortgage foreclosures which it undertakes will comply with all applicable requirements. however, even if neither our rialto segment nor any servicing organization it uses does anything improper in foreclosing mortgages held by the rialto segment or entities it manages, reaction by courts and regulatory agencies against apparently widespread instances of improper mortgage foreclosure procedures could make it more difficult and more expensive for our rialto segment to foreclose mortgages that secure loans that it or entities it manages own. 15 table of contents the ability of our rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions related to the distressed loans and other real estate related assets. a principal factor in a prospective purchaser decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. the cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. we believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our rialto segment will enable the rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. if it is not able to do that, the rialto segment probably will not generate the returns it is seeking. the supply of real estate related assets available at discounts from normal prices will likely decrease if and when the real estate markets improve, which could require our rialto segment to change its investment objectives. the current objectives of our rialto segment is to focus on investments in commercial and residential real estate related assets that are available at below market prices because of the dislocations in the united states real estate markets over the past several years. a recovery of the real estate markets would probably benefit the investments the rialto segment has made, but it probably would substantially reduce or end the availability of the types of investments the rialto segment has made and currently is seeking. that would require the rialto segment to rethink, and probably to change, its investment strategy. restrictions in agreements related to a fund that the rialto segment manages could prevent the rialto segment from making investments. the rialto segment manages the rialto real estate fund (the fund ), a fund that was formed to make investments in, among other things, distressed loans and real estate related assets. in order to protect investors in the fund against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to the fund, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for the fund except to the extent an advisory committee consisting of representatives of fund investors decides that the fund should not make particular investments. there is an exception that permits us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations and to co-invest with the fund (of which we will own between 10% and 25% depending on the total amount of the investments in the fund). regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. there have been significant concerns about the continuing viability of fannie mae and freddie mac and a number of proposals to curtail their activities. these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. our homebuyers ability to qualify for and obtain affordable mortgages could be impacted by changes in government sponsored entities and private mortgage insurance companies supporting the mortgage market. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac, fha/va sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. higher income requirements could reduce the amount that homebuyers can qualify for when buying new homes. larger down payment requirements and increased asset reserve thresholds appear to be preventing or delaying some homebuyers from entering the market. increased credit score requirements eliminate a segment of potential homebuyers. 16 table of contents government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase our builder fees and the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggregate the delays we could encounter. we can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. when we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to our associates who were aware of the practices, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual federal, and in some cases state, taxable income. if the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our president, chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 46% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common 17 table of contents stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders desires. we may not be able to benefit from net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards. we suffered significant losses in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for tax (as well as for financial statement) purposes. we were able to carry back 100% of our 2007 tax loss and most of our 2008 tax loss to recover taxes we had paid with regard to prior years. however, we would not have been able to carry back our 2009 fiscal year tax loss without legislation enacted in november 2009 that expanded the nol carryback to 5 years, but only allowed 50% of taxable income earned in 2004 to be offset with 2009 loss. we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses we could not carry back, except to the extent we have taxable income in the 20 year nol carryforward period. in our financial statements, we have fully reserved against all our deferred tax assets due to the possibility that we may not have taxable income that will enable us to benefit from them. however, those reserves will be reversed when it becomes more likely than not that we will have sufficient future taxable income to take advantage of the deferred tax assets. trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards. under the internal revenue code, if there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock during any three-year period caused by more than 5% shareholders, the ability to utilize nol carryforwards is limited to the market value of the company times the long-term federal tax exempt rate. this change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without becoming a new majority owner. during the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in our holdings by 5% shareholders. however, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three-year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. if that occurred, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2010 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2010. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2010. rialto investments loans receivable are not included in the table below because income is recorded through accretable yield due to the loans acquired having deteriorated credit quality, thus we believe they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2010 years ending november 30, thereafter total fair value at november 30, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (dollars in millions) assets rialto investments: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 19.5 19.5 19.5 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 236.1 236.1 236.1 average interest rate 4.3 % 4.3 % variable rate $ 9.3 9.3 9.3 average interest rate 3.1 % 3.1 % loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 2.8 1.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 13.1 19.0 20.3 average interest rate 1.9 % 3.0 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.2 % 6.6 % 5.7 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 5.1 5.9 5.9 average interest rate 3.6 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 4.0 % 4.0 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 131.5 6.4 267.3 270.1 504.6 1,544.5 2,724.4 2,749.3 average interest rate 5.8 % 4.4 % 5.9 % 5.7 % 5.6 % 6.3 % 6.1 % variable rate $ 75.5 231.9 85.9 9.5 1.0 403.8 403.8 average interest rate 2.9 % 3.3 % 4.8 % 5.5 % 3.5 % 3.6 % rialto investments: notes payable: fixed rate (1) $ 156.9 314.0 156.0 626.9 600.1 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % variable rate $ 13.0 20.0 33.0 33.0 26.4 125.4 119.6 average interest rate 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 average interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % variable rate $ 271.6 271.6 271.6 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % (1) the notes payable have extension provisions which could extend the maturity of amounts due for up to seven years from origination. 66 table of contents management annual report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our ceo and cfo, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. based on our evaluation under the framework in internal control integrated framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of november 30, 2010. the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2010 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein. 67 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of lennar corporation we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of lennar corporation and subsidiaries (the company ) as of november 30, 2010, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management annual report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2010, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended november 30, 2010 of the company and our report dated january 31, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph related to retrospective adjustments for the adoption of certain accounting standards related to the presentation of noncontrolling interests and the disclosure guidance applicable to variable interest entities and the adoption of other provisions of the amended consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities which resulted in the deconsolidation of certain option contracts. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp certified public accountants miami, florida january 31, 2011 68 table of contentsrisk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses. homebuilding market and economic risks the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn over the last several years. a continuing reduced demand for new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn over the last several years. as a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. the number of homes we sold in 2011 was only 22% of the number of homes we sold in 2006 and our home sales revenues in 2011 were only 18% of what they were in 2006. this decline in demand, together with an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and used homes (including foreclosed homes), has depressed prices and, at least through 2009, reduced margins. in 2010 and 2011, our margins improved to closer to their historically normal levels, but demand continued to be weak, in part because of limited availability of mortgage financing for potential homebuyers, and there continued to be a significant stock of used homes, including foreclosed homes. we have no basis for predicting how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in various homebuilding markets or whether sales volumes or pricing will ever return to pre-2007 levels. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment. demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. during 2009, 2010 and 2011, the mortgage 9 table of contents lending industry experienced significant instability. as a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, and in part because of governmental pressures to improve capital ratios, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. fewer loan products, stricter loan qualification standards and higher down payment requirements have made it more difficult for many potential homebuyers to finance the purchase of homes, including those we build. although our finance company subsidiaries offer mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. lack of availability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including in some instances causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. there has also been a substantial loss of jobs in the united states during the last several years. people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs are unlikely to purchase new homes and may be forced to try to sell the homes they own. therefore, the current employment situation can adversely affect us both by reducing demand for the homes we build and by increasing the supply of homes for sale. mortgage defaults, particularly by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, are increasing the number of homes available for resale. during the period of high demand prior to 2007, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. as a result, new homes became more affordable. however, as monthly payments for these homes have increased either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers have defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which has increased the inventory of homes available for resale. this is likely to continue. foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. in an environment of declining home prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. it has become more difficult for potential homebuyers to obtain mortgage financing, which is reducing demand for homes we offer. many lenders and other holders of mortgage loans have been adversely affected in recent years by a combination of reduced ability of homeowners to meet mortgage obligations and reduced value of the homes that secure mortgage loans. as a result, lenders and secondary market mortgage purchasers have eliminated most of their non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increased the qualifications needed to obtain mortgage loans. in addition, if a home appraises for less than the sales price, a greater down-payment may need to be provided by the potential homebuyer in order to meet the lender requirement or the sales price may need to be reduced. although mortgage interest rates were very low during 2010 and 2011, the factors that have made mortgage loans more difficult to obtain have had a material adverse effect on our sales volume. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a continuing decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased at high prices and had to be written down to reduced values that reflect current market conditions. also, prior to 2007, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that no longer are attractive, and in connection with those options, we made substantial non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, incurred pre-acquisition costs. when demand fell, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. additionally, as a result of these market conditions, we recorded significant valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities and recorded our share of adjustments made by unconsolidated entities to the carrying values of their assets. the combination of land inventory impairments, write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and valuation adjustments relating to our investments in unconsolidated entities had a material negative effect on our operating results for fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009, contributing to much of our net losses in those fiscal years. write downs were significantly lower during 2010 and 2011 and many of the write downs were primarily as a result of changes in strategy and other developments regarding certain of our joint ventures. however, if market conditions deteriorate further or our strategies related to certain assets change, some of our assets may be subject to further write-downs in the future, decreasing the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affecting our earnings and our stockholders equity. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in 10 table of contents the future. an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them, but it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. the effect of cost increases that we cannot recover by increasing prices would be to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. that would make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and could lead to significant further reductions in the value of our land inventory. we face significant competition in our efforts to sell new homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders can reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes (many of which had been owned by housing speculators) and rental housing. operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. things done by subcontractors can expose us to warranty costs and other risks. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain raw materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, improper construction processes or defective materials, such as chinese drywall, were used in the construction of our homes. when we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer reputational damage, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with all applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors had been doing. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. 11 table of contents reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewers and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. also, when we have terminated land purchase options, we have forfeited deposits we made with regard to the options, and in many instances, lost the benefit of pre-acquisition costs we incurred with regard to properties that were the subject of the options. we may never recover those costs. we do not have a corporate credit line. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. in the past we have had a corporate credit facility (with lennar corporation as the borrower and most of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, other than finance company subsidiaries, as guarantors) that we used to help finance development activities. however, because of the decline in our land purchasing, development and building activities, and our ability to obtain debt and equity financing through the capital markets, we have had little need for the credit facility in recent years. therefore, in february 2010, we terminated our $1.1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility in order to eliminate the cost of maintaining it (although, we established and continue to maintain letter of credit facilities). while we believe that under current circumstances, the funds we generate through our operations, together with our ability to sell debt and equity securities into capital markets, give us access to all the funds we need, if market conditions lead us to want to increase our homebuilding activities to a level that requires us to incur short-term borrowings, but we are not able to arrange a new credit facility, the absence of a credit facility may prevent us from taking full advantage of market opportunities. we do not have an investment grade credit rating, which makes it more costly for us to sell debt securities. our ability to sell debt securities on favorable terms has been an important factor in financing our business and operations in a profitable manner. in 2007 and 2008, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit ratings, and as a result we no longer have investment grade ratings. this makes it more costly, and under some circumstances could make it more difficult, for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. despite not having an investment grade rating, during 2010 and 2011, we were able to sell debt securities in capital market transactions at significantly lower interest rates than in previous years. during 2010, we sold $250 million principal amount of 6.95% senior notes due 2018, $276.5 million of 2.00% convertible senior notes and $446 million of 2.75% convertible senior notes, both due in 2020. during 2011, we sold $350 million principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2021, and we sold an additional $50 million principal amount shortly after november 30, 2011, when the initial purchasers of the 3.25% notes exercised an option to purchase additional notes to cover over-allotments. despite the relatively low interest rates with regard to the notes we sold in 2010 and 2011, the rates probably would have been even lower if we had had an investment grade rating. if we were subject to further downgrades, that would exacerbate the cost and difficulty of accessing debt capital markets. the repurchase warehouse credit facilities of our financial services segment will expire in 2012. our lennar financial services segment has a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million and an additional uncommitted amount of $73 million that matures in february 2012, and another 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $175 million (plus a $25 million temporary accordion feature that expired december 31, 2011) that matures in july 2012. the financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans are sold to investors and expects both facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we are unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment, unless we are willing and able to provide the funds our financial services segment needs to finance its mortgage originations until the mortgages can be sold. we conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners failure to fulfill their obligations. for a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. however, as the homebuilding market deteriorated beginning in 2006, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. 12 table of contents most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of obligations not satisfied by our partner at significant cost to us. also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have been given the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures obligations. however, particularly when our joint venture partners were having financial problems, we often had difficulty collecting the sums they owed us, and therefore, we sometimes were required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. in addition, because we lacked controlling interests in these joint ventures, we were usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. as a result, without joint venture partner consent, we were unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. even if we were able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation sometimes were insufficient to cover the costs we had incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. during 2007 through 2011, we have significantly reduced the number of joint ventures in which we participate and our exposure to recourse indebtedness of the remaining joint ventures. however, the risks to us from joint ventures in which we are a participant are likely to continue at least as long as the value of residential properties remains low. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. some of the unconsolidated entities debt arrangements contain financial covenants they may not be able to meet. additionally, certain joint venture loan agreements have minimum number of homesite takedown requirements in which the joint ventures are required to sell a minimum number of homesites over a stated period of time. due to the deterioration of the homebuilding market, many of the joint ventures were required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. this action might be required, for example, in the case of an expired maturity date or a failure to comply with the loan covenants. there can be no assurance that the joint ventures will be able to finance, refinance, renegotiate or extend, on terms we and our joint venture partners deem acceptable. if joint ventures are unsuccessful in these efforts, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans. we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. as a result of a decline in our stock price, previous retention mechanisms, such as equity awards, have diminished in value. our financial services segment is adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. a majority of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes adversely affects the financial results of this segment of our business. if our ability to resell mortgages is impaired, we may be required to reduce home sales unless we are willing to become a long term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. after the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. the secondary mortgage market has been severely impacted by the decline in property values over the past several years. to date, our finance company subsidiaries have been able to sell substantially all the mortgages they have originated. if, however we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would either have to curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or to commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. our financial services segment has received demands that it repurchase mortgage loans it sold in the secondary mortgage market and we may be required to repurchase loans in excess of amounts reserved. particularly during 2009, 2010 and 2011, our financial services segment received demands that it repurchase certain loans that it sold to entities in the secondary mortgage market. the demands have related primarily to loans originated during 2005 13 table of contents through 2007 and are frequently based on assertions that information borrowers gave our financial services segment was not accurate. in many instances, we have successfully disputed the claims. however, in some instances we have settled claims to maintain our business relationships with the claimants or to avoid litigation costs. in other instances, there are active disputes regarding certain loans. while we believe we have significant defenses against virtually all of the currently unresolved repurchase demands, we have established a reserve based upon, among other things, an analysis of repurchase requests received, an estimate of potential repurchase claims not yet received, our actual past repurchases and losses through the disposition of affected loans. at november 30, 2011 and 2010, this reserve was $6.1 million and $9.9 million, respectively. if there is an unexpected increase in the amount of repurchase demands we receive, or if we are not able to resolve repurchase demands on a basis consistent with our experience to date, the cost to us with regard to the repurchase demands could exceed the reserve we have established. our rialto segment invests in distressed real estate assets at significant discounts; however, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly we could suffer losses. almost all the investments to date by our rialto segment have involved acquisitions of portfolios of, or interests in portfolios of, distressed debt instruments and foreclosed properties. that is consistent with the rialto segment objective of focusing on commercial and residential real estate opportunities arising from dislocations in the united states real estate markets and the restructuring and recapitalization of those markets. however, the rialto segment investing in distressed debt and foreclosed properties presents many risks in addition to those inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the anticipated restructuring and recapitalization of the united states real estate markets will not take place for many years, the risk that defaults on debt instruments in which the rialto segment invests will be greater than anticipated and the risk that if the rialto segment has to liquidate its investments into the market, it will suffer severe losses in doing so. there is also the possibility that, even if the rialto segment investments perform as expected, absence of a liquid market for these investments will result in a need to reduce the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. if rialto investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. we obtain a valuation when a loan has been foreclosed upon and we take title to the property. the book value of the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). a charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset book value over its fair value. if the valuation we establish for an asset is incorrect, the fair value of that investment in real estate may not be sufficient to recover the book value of such asset, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our operating results can be affected by changes in the value of the assets of a ppip fund that is controlled by an unrelated third party. we have an investment in a ppip fund regarding which our rialto segment is a subadvisor, but which is principally advised by a company with which we have no affiliation. because that ppip fund is required to revalue its assets quarterly, and because the value of the ppip fund assets fluctuates significantly from quarter to quarter, our operating results for a quarter can be materially affected by changes in value of the fund assets. there is substantial competition for the types of investments on which our rialto segment is focused, and this may limit the ability of the rialto segment to make investments on terms that are attractive to it. our rialto segment, and a distressed real estate asset fund that it created and manages, currently are focused on investments in distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the dislocations during the last several years in the markets for real estate, mortgage loans and real estate related securities. many of the opportunities to acquire these types of assets arise under programs involving co-investments with and financing provided by agencies of the federal government. there are many firms and investment funds that are trying to acquire the types of assets on which our rialto segment and the investment fund it manages are focused, and it is likely that a significant number of additional investment funds will be formed in the next year or more with the objective of acquiring those types of assets. at least some of the firms with which the rialto segment competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of capital that is lower than that of the rialto segment or the investment fund it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for our rialto segment or the investment fund it manages. 14 table of contents our rialto segment could be adversely affected by court and governmental responses to improper mortgage foreclosure procedures. during recent years it appears that mortgage lenders and mortgage loan servicers have in a number of instances failed to comply with the requirements for obtaining and foreclosing mortgage loans. although our rialto segment owns or manages entities that own large numbers of mortgage loans, those loans all were acquired by our rialto segment and the entities it manages within the past two years, and our rialto segment has procedures designed to ensure that any mortgage foreclosures which it undertakes will comply with all applicable requirements. however, even if neither our rialto segment nor any servicing organization it uses does anything improper in foreclosing mortgages held by the rialto segment or entities it manages, reaction by courts and regulatory agencies against apparently widespread instances of improper mortgage foreclosure procedures could make it more difficult and more expensive for our rialto segment to foreclose mortgages that secure loans that it or entities it manages own. the ability of our rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions related to the distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets. a principal factor in a prospective purchaser decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. the cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. we believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our rialto segment will enable the rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. if it is not able to do that, the rialto segment probably will not generate the returns it is seeking. the supply of real estate related assets available at discounts from normal prices will likely decrease if and when the real estate markets improve, which could require our rialto segment to change its investment strategy. the current strategy of our rialto segment is to seek above normal risk adjusted returns by focusing on investments in commercial and residential real estate related assets that are available at below market prices because of the dislocations in the united states real estate markets over the past several years. a recovery of the real estate markets would probably benefit the investments the rialto segment has made, but it probably would substantially reduce or end the availability of the types of investments the rialto segment has made and currently is seeking. that would require the rialto segment to rethink, and probably to change, its investment strategy. restrictions in agreements related to a fund that the rialto segment manages could prevent the rialto segment from making investments. the rialto segment manages the rialto real estate fund (the fund ), a fund that was formed to make investments in, among other things, distressed real estate related debt and foreclosed properties. in order to protect investors in the fund against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to the fund, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for the fund except to the extent an advisory committee consisting of representatives of fund investors decides that the fund should not make particular investments. there is an exception that permits us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations. however, for several years the restrictions will prevent the rialto segment from making investments in distressed mortgage loans or foreclosed properties other than through the fund (of which we currently own approximately 10.7 %), except to the extent the advisory committee decides the fund should not make particular investments. fees received by our rialto segment may not be reflected on our income statements. our rialto segment has during the past year begun to focus primarily on managing assets for investment funds, rather than acquiring the assets itself. under recent changes in generally accepted accounting principles, there is a substantial possibility that we will be required to include some or all of the funds managed by the rialto segment in our consolidated financial statements, even if we have little or no ownership interest in the funds. to the extent our consolidated financial statements include net assets or net income or losses of funds the rialto segment manages, they will also show the portion of the net assets or the net income or losses that is allocable to non-controlling interests (i.e., the owners of interests in the funds). however, to the extent our rialto segment receives fees for managing the funds that are eliminated when the funds financial statements are included in our consolidated financial statements, that fee income will not be reflected on our consolidated income statements. 15 table of contents regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. there have been significant concerns about the continuing viability of fannie mae and freddie mac and a number of proposals to curtail their activities. these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. our homebuyers ability to qualify for and obtain affordable mortgages could be impacted by changes made by government sponsored entities and private mortgage insurance companies supporting the mortgage market. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac, fha/va sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. higher income requirements reduce the amounts for which some homebuyers can qualify when buying new homes. larger down payment requirements and increased asset reserve thresholds appear to be preventing or delaying some homebuyers from entering the market. increased credit score requirements eliminate a segment of potential homebuyers. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggregate the delays we could encounter. we can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. when we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of the practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. 16 table of contents tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual federal, and in some cases state, taxable income. if the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a home would increase substantially. this could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and family-owned entities, of class a and class b common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 46% of the votes that may be cast by the holders of our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller voting power might discourage someone from acquiring us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders desires. we may not be able to benefit from net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards. we suffered significant losses in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for tax (as well as for financial statement) purposes. we were able to carry back 100% of our 2007 tax loss and most of our 2008 tax loss to recover taxes we had paid with regard to prior years. however, we would not have been able to carry back our 2009 fiscal year tax loss without legislation enacted in november 2009 that expanded the nol carryback to 5 years, but only allowed 50% of taxable income earned in 2004 to be offset with 2009 loss. we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses we could not carry back, except to the extent we have taxable income in the 20 year nol carryforward period. in our financial statements, we have fully reserved against all our deferred tax assets due to the possibility that we may not have taxable income that will enable us to benefit from them. however, those reserves will be reversed when it becomes more likely than not that we will have sufficient future taxable income to take advantage of the deferred tax assets. trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards. under the internal revenue code, if there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock during any three-year period caused by more than 5% shareholders, our ability to utilize nol carryforwards would be limited to the market value of our company at the time of the change in ownership times the long-term federal tax exempt rate. this change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without anybody becoming a new majority owner. during the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in our holdings by 5% shareholders. however, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three-year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. if that occurred, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2011 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2011. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2011. rialto investments loans receivable are not included in the table below because income is recorded through accretable yield due to the loans acquired having deteriorated credit quality, thus we believe they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 66 table of contents information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2011 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total 2011 assets lennar homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 42.9 42.9 42.9 average interest rate 6.0 % 6.0 % rialto investments: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 14.1 14.1 14.0 average interest rate 4.0. % 4.0 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 295.3 295.3 295.3 average interest rate 4.1 % 4.1 % variable rate $ 8.5 8.5 8.5 average interest rate 2.7 % 2.7 % loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 34.6 15.3 0.6 0.7 0.7 15.9 67.8 65.3 average interest rate 0.9 % 1.5 % 6.4 % 6.6 % 6.6 % 6.1 % 2.4 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 4.7 5.4 5.1 average interest rate 3.6 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.8 % 4.3 % 4.2 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 12.0 274.7 262.7 503.5 286.3 1,681.5 3,020.7 3,124.3 average interest rate 3.4 % 5.9 % 5.7 % 5.6 % 6.6 % 5.6 % 5.7 % variable rate $ 170.8 56.5 42.0 22.5 39.5 10.8 342.1 366.9 average interest rate 4.5 % 10.1 % 8.7 % 10.4 % 4.1 % 3.3 % 6.2 % rialto investments: notes payable: fixed rate (1) $ 158.0 316.5 158.5 1.2 5.1 2.3 641.6 626.8 average interest rate 0.1 % 6.0 % 6.2 % 5.9 % 0.1 % variable rate $ 11.5 20.0 33.0 33.0 26.4 123.9 103.1 average interest rate 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 average interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % variable rate $ 410.0 410.0 410.0 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 67 table of contentsrisk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses. homebuilding market and economic risks although demand for new homes has begun strengthening, there continue to be factors that are adversely affecting demand and could lead to a return of the downturn that for several years severely reduced the number of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them from 2007 at least until the second half of 2011, the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn. this severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. beginning in 2010, our margins improved to closer to their historically normal levels, and beginning in the middle of 2011, demand for our homes began to increase in many of our communities. however, there continue to be factors that are adversely affecting demand for our homes, including limited availability of mortgage financing for potential homebuyers and a significant inventory of used homes, including foreclosed homes. if these or other factors caused demand for homes to return to their pre-2011 levels, we could have significant difficulty generating profits from our homebuilding activities. demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment. demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. currently, unemployment is above historically normal levels and many lenders have limited their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. regulations that have been proposed by the federal consumer financial protection bureau could make it even more difficult for some potential home buyers to finance their purchases. partially offsetting these factors, mortgage interest rates are very low, which has reduced the monthly cost of owning a home. however, interest rates on residential mortgage loans could increase at any time, and this, together with the reluctance of many lenders to make residential mortgage loans, and possible effects of new governmental regulations, could significantly reduce demand for the homes we build. high unemployment affects us in two ways. not only are people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs unlikely to purchase new homes, but they may be forced to sell the homes they own. therefore, high unemployment can adversely affect us both by reducing demand for the homes we build and by increasing the supply of homes for sale. most of our 2012 earnings resulted from non-cash reversals of reserves relating to future tax benefits. during 2007, 2008 and 2009, we suffered losses for financial statement purposes totaling more than $4.4 billion, before tax benefit. those losses generated large tax benefits, some of which we used to recover taxes we had paid in prior years, but some of which resulted in deferred tax assets in the form of net operating loss carryforwards ("nols"), from which we could benefit only if we had taxable income in the future. because it was not certain whether we would have sufficient taxable income to enable us to take advantage of the available future tax benefits, during 2008 and 2009, we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets totaling $647.4 million (net of a reversal due to a change in the tax laws). at november 30, 2011, the deferred tax asset valuation allowance still totaled $576.9 million. during fiscal 2012, because our improved operating results made it appear more likely than not that the majority of our deferred tax assets would be utilized, we reversed a majority of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which had the effect of increasing our net earnings by $491.5 million. as of november 30, 2012, our net deferred tax assets were $467.6 million and our deferred tax asset valuation allowance was $88.8 million, which is primarily related to state nols. mortgage defaults, particularly by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, have increased the number of homes available for resale. during the period of high demand prior to 2007, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during 10 table of contents initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. as a result, new homes became more affordable. however, as monthly payments for these homes increased either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, many of these homebuyers defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which increased the inventory of homes available for resale. there continue to be foreclosures, and foreclosure sales and other distress sales continue to exert a downward pressure on the prices for which homes, including homes in some of our communities, can be sold. it has become more difficult for potential homebuyers to obtain mortgage financing, which is reducing demand for homes we offer. many lenders and other holders of mortgage loans have been adversely affected in recent years by a combination of reduced ability of homeowners to meet mortgage obligations and reduced value of the homes that secure mortgage loans. as a result, lenders and secondary market mortgage purchasers have eliminated most of their non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increased the qualifications needed to obtain mortgage loans. among other things, if a home appraises for less than the purchase price, the potential homebuyer may need to provide a greater down-payment in order to meet the lender requirement or the purchase price (which is our sale price) may need to be reduced. also, in january 2013, the federal consumer financial protection bureau proposed regulations that could make it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance home purchases. although mortgage interest rates have been very low during 2010, 2011 and 2012, the difficulty of obtaining mortgage loans has reduced the effect that low interest rates probably would otherwise have had upon home sales. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a future decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. some of the land we currently own was purchased in or before 2007 at prices that were significantly above those for which similar land was available for sale under the depressed market conditions that prevailed in 2008 and subsequent years. also, prior to 2007, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that became unattractive. when we obtained those options, we often made substantial non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, we incurred substantial infrastructure development and other pre-acquisition costs before we decided whether to exercise the options. when demand for homes fell, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. additionally, as a result of the depressed market conditions between 2008 and 2011, we recorded significant reductions in the carrying value of our investments in unconsolidated entities and, in addition, we had to record our share of reductions made by unconsolidated entities in the carrying values of their assets. the combination of land inventory impairments, write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and valuation adjustments related to unconsolidated entities in which we had investments were a major cause of the net losses we incurred in fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009. write downs related to our homebuilding activities were significantly lower during 2010, 2011 and 2012 and resulted primarily from changes in strategy or losses suffered by our joint ventures (we also had some write downs in 2011 and 2012 with regard to loans receivable and foreclosed real estate held by our rialto segment). however, if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could be required to make additional write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have begun to experience increases in the prices of some materials and some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in the future. an excess of supply over demand for new homes may require us to reduce the prices for which we sell homes, but not be accompanied by reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. the effect of cost increases that we cannot recover by increasing prices would be to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. in addition to directly reducing our profit from home sales, that would make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and could lead to significant further reductions in the value of our land inventory. we face significant competition in our efforts to sell new homes. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders can reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes (many of which had been owned by housing speculators) and rental housing. 11 table of contents operational risks homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors' insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements, and assumed responsibility for certain risks and liabilities of those subcontractors. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly. things done by subcontractors can expose us to warranty costs and other risks. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, improper construction processes or defective materials, such as defective chinese drywall that at one time was installed in homes built for the company and many other homebuilders in florida and elsewhere, were used in the construction of our homes. when we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with all applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors had been doing. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. by the end of 2012, we had begun to experience increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. these include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewers and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. reducing the rate at which we build and sell homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs. we have substantially reduced our corporate credit line. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. until 2010, we had a corporate credit facility (with lennar corporation as the borrower and most of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, other than finance company subsidiaries, as guarantors) that we used to help finance development activities. prior to 2008, this credit line 12 table of contents was as high as $3.1 billion. however, because of the decline in our land purchasing, development and building activities, and our ability to obtain debt and equity financing through the capital markets, we gradually reduced the credit line, and in february 2010, we terminated it (although, we established and continue to maintain letter of credit facilities). in 2012, we established a new $500 million credit line, which has an accordion feature that could enable us to increase it to $525 million. however, this is still substantially less than the credit line we maintained in and prior to 2008. we believe that under current circumstances, the funds we generate through our operations, together with our ability to sell debt and equity securities into capital markets and our new credit line, give us access to all the funds we need. if market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding, but we are not able to significantly increase our credit facility, the relatively small size of our credit facility might prevent us from taking full advantage of market opportunities. we could lose our credit line if we fail to make required payments or to comply with financial covenants. we have a credit line that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding and other activities. the agreement relating to that credit line makes it a default for us to fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios. if we default under the credit agreement, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise. we do not have an investment grade credit rating, which makes it more costly for us to sell debt securities. our ability to sell debt securities on favorable terms has been an important factor in financing our business and operations in a profitable manner. in 2007 and 2008, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit ratings, and as a result we no longer have investment grade ratings. this makes it more costly, and under some circumstances could make it more difficult, for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives. despite not having an investment grade rating, during 2010, 2011 and 2012, we were able to sell debt securities in capital market transactions at significantly lower interest rates than in previous years. during 2010, we sold $250 million principal amount of 6.95% senior notes due 2018, $276.5 million of 2.00% convertible senior notes due 2020 and $446 million of 2.75% convertible senior notes due 2020. during 2011, we sold $350 million principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2021, and we sold an additional $50 million principal amount of those notes shortly after november 30, 2011, when the initial purchasers of the notes exercised an option to purchase additional notes to cover over-allotments. during 2012 we sold a total of $750 million principal amount of senior notes that mature in 2017 and 2022, respectively, and bear interest at 4.75%. despite the relatively low interest rates with regard to the notes we sold in 2010 through 2012, the rates probably would have been even lower if we had had an investment grade rating. if we became subject to further downgrades, that would increase the cost and difficulty of accessing debt capital markets. the repurchase warehouse credit facilities of our financial services segment will expire in 2013. our lennar financial services segment has a 364-day warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million and an additional uncommitted amount of $50 million that matures in february 2013 , a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $250 million that matures in july 2013 , and a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million (plus a $100 million temporary accordion feature that expired december 31, 2012) and a 364-day warehouse facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $60 million , both of which mature in november 2013 . the financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. it expects all three facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment, unless lennar itself is willing and able to provide the funds our financial services segment needs to finance its mortgage originations until the mortgages can be sold. we conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners' failure to fulfill their obligations. for a number of years, we created and participated in a large number of joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in the joint ventures' own homebuilding operations. by using these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. however, as the homebuilding market deteriorated after 2006, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide 13 table of contents maintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures' assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of our partner's obligations at what can be a significant cost to us. also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have had the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures' obligations. however, particularly when our joint venture partners were having financial problems, we often had difficulty collecting the sums they owed us, and therefore, we sometimes were required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. in addition, because we lacked controlling interests in these joint ventures, we were usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. as a result, without joint venture partner consent, we were unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. even when we were able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation sometimes were insufficient to cover the costs we had incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations. by 2012, we had significantly reduced both the number of joint ventures in which we participate and our exposure to recourse indebtedness of the remaining joint ventures. however, because most of the remaining joint ventures in which we participate were formed with regard to particular properties, and the extent to which the value of residential real estate has stabilized is not the same in all areas, we continue to have risks of loss with regard to at least some of the joint ventures in which we are a participant. in addition, as part of our multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs and we could be responsible for cost overruns. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements. many of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans and to conduct the activities for which they were formed. we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel. our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. our financial services segment is adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. approximately 50% of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business. if our ability to resell mortgages is impaired, we may be required to reduce home sales unless we are willing to become a long term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. after the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. the secondary mortgage market was severely impacted by the decline in property values between 2007 and 2011 and it has not recovered fully even though property values in many areas of the country stabilized significantly, and even began to rise, during the last part of 2011 and during 2012. to date, our finance company subsidiaries have been able to sell substantially all the mortgages they have originated. if, however, we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. our financial services segment has received demands that it repurchase mortgage loans it sold in the secondary mortgage market and we may be required to repurchase loans in excess of amounts reserved. particularly during 2009, 2010 and 2011, our financial services segment received demands that it repurchase certain loans that it had previously sold in the secondary mortgage market. the demands related primarily to loans originated during 2005 through 2007 and were frequently based on assertions that information borrowers gave our financial services segment was not accurate. in many instances, we have successfully disputed the claims. however, in some instances we have settled claims to maintain our business relationships with the claimants or to avoid litigation costs. in other instances, there are active disputes regarding certain loans. while we believe we have significant defenses against virtually all of the currently unresolved 14 table of contents repurchase demands, we have established a reserve based upon, among other things, an analysis of repurchase requests received, an estimate of potential repurchase claims not yet received and our actual past repurchases and losses through the disposition of loans we repurchased, as well as previous settlements. at november 30, 2012 and 2011, this reserve was $7.3 million and $6.1 million, respectively. if there is an unexpected increase in the amount of repurchase demands we receive that we believe we should settle, or if we are not able to resolve existing repurchase demands on a basis consistent with our experience to date, the cost to us with regard to the repurchase demands could exceed the reserve we have established. although our rialto segment's investments in distressed real estate assets have been at significant discounts, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly we could suffer losses. until 2011, the principal activity of our rialto segment involved acquisitions of portfolios of, or interests in portfolios of, distressed debt instruments and foreclosed properties. that was consistent with the rialto segment's objective of focusing on commercial and residential real estate opportunities arising from dislocations in the united states real estate markets and the restructuring and recapitalization of those markets. since 2011, investments have been made primarily by fund i managed by the rialto segment, rather than by the rialto segment itself, and the rialto segment is in the process of marketing fund ii. lennar is an investor in fund i and has committed to make an investment in fund ii. investing in distressed debt and foreclosed properties presents many risks in addition to those inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the anticipated restructuring and recapitalization of the united states real estate markets will not be completed for many years, the risk that defaults on debt instruments in which the rialto segment or the funds it manages invests will be greater than anticipated and the risk that if the rialto segment or any of the funds it manages has to liquidate its investments into the market, it will suffer severe losses in doing so. there is also the possibility that, even if the investments made by the rialto segment or the funds it manages perform as expected, absence of a liquid market for these investments will result in a need to reduce the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. if rialto's investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses and we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. when a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. the book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property if classified as held-and-used, or the market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs if classified as held-for-sale (fair value), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. if the valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. material additional charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition. there is substantial competition for the types of investments on which our rialto segment is focused, and this may limit the ability of the rialto segment or the investment fund it manages to make investments on terms that are attractive to it. our rialto segment, and its funds, fund i and fund ii, that it created and manages, currently are focused on investments in distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the dislocations during the last several years in the markets for real estate, mortgage loans and real estate related securities. some of the opportunities to acquire these types of assets arise under programs involving co-investments with and financing provided by agencies of the federal government. there are many firms and investment funds that are trying to acquire the types of assets on which our rialto segment and the investment fund it manages are focused, and it is likely that a significant number of additional investment funds will be formed in the future with the objective of acquiring those types of assets. at least some of the firms with which the rialto segment competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of capital that is lower than that of the rialto segment or the investment funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for our rialto segment or the investment funds it manages. our rialto segment could be adversely affected by court and governmental responses to improper mortgage foreclosure procedures. during recent years it appears that mortgage lenders and mortgage loan servicers have in a number of instances failed to comply with the requirements for obtaining and foreclosing mortgage loans. although our rialto segment owns or manages entities that own large numbers of mortgage loans, those loans all were acquired by our rialto segment and the entities it manages within the past two years, and our rialto segment has procedures designed to ensure that any mortgage foreclosures which it undertakes will comply with all applicable requirements. however, even if neither our rialto segment nor any servicing organization it uses does anything improper in foreclosing mortgages held by the rialto segment or entities it manages, reaction by courts and regulatory agencies against apparently widespread instances of improper mortgage foreclosure procedures could make it more difficult and more expensive for our rialto segment to foreclose mortgages that secure loans that it or entities it manages own. 15 table of contents the ability of our rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions related to the distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets. a principal factor in a prospective purchaser's decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. the cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. we believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our rialto segment will enable the rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. if it is not able to do that, the rialto segment probably will not generate the returns it is seeking. the supply of real estate related assets available at discounts from normal prices will likely decrease if the real estate markets continue to improve, which could require our rialto segment to change its investment strategy. the current strategy of our rialto segment is to seek above normal risk adjusted returns for itself or the investment funds it manages by focusing on investments in commercial and residential real estate related assets that are available at below market prices because of the dislocations in the united states real estate markets over the past several years. a continued recovery of the real estate markets would probably benefit the investments the rialto segment and the funds it manages have made, but it probably would substantially reduce or end the availability of the types of distressed asset investments they have made. that would require the rialto segment to rethink, and probably to change, its investment strategy. restrictions in agreements related to fund i, that the rialto segment manages could prevent the rialto segment from making investments. the rialto segment manages fund i, a fund that was formed to make investments in, among other things, distressed real estate related debt and foreclosed properties. in order to protect investors in fund i against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to fund i, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for fund i except to the extent an advisory committee consisting of representatives of fund i investors decides that fund i should not make particular investments, and we will probably make similar commitments with regard to subsequent funds the rialto segment creates. there is an exception that permits us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations. however, it is likely that for several years the restrictions will prevent the rialto segment from making investments in distressed mortgage loans or foreclosed properties other than through fund i (of which we currently own approximately 10.7%), except to the extent the applicable advisory committee decides that a fund should not make particular investments. regulatory risks federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. there have been significant concerns about the continuing viability of fannie mae and freddie mac and a number of proposals to curtail their activities. these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. our homebuyers' ability to qualify for and obtain affordable mortgages could be impacted by changes made by government sponsored entities and private mortgage insurance companies supporting the mortgage market. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. higher income requirements reduce the amounts for which some homebuyers can qualify when buying new homes. larger down payment requirements and increased asset reserve thresholds appear to be preventing or delaying some homebuyers from entering the market. increased credit score requirements eliminate a segment of potential homebuyers. new government regulations may make it more difficult for potential purchasers to finance home purchases and may reduce the number of mortgage loans our financial services segment makes. in january 2013, the federal consumer financial protection bureau proposed regulations that would impose minimum qualifications for mortgage borrowers. these regulations could make it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance home purchases and could result in our financial services segment originating fewer mortgages, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on future revenues and earnings. government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. 16 table of contents some state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. in addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. we can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. when we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of the practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. historically, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally have been deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income as itemized deductions. the federal government has been considering eliminating some deductions, or limiting the tax benefit of deductions, with regard to people with incomes above specified levels. as part of the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, enacted on january 1, 2013, beginning in 2013 certain taxpayers will have their itemized deductions limited. such limits will increase the after-tax cost of owning a home, which is likely to impact adversely the demand for homes we build and could reduce the prices for which we can sell homes, particularly in higher priced communities. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 46% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires. 17 table of contents the trading price of our class b common stock is substantially less than that of our class a common stock. the only difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. yet the trading price of the class b common stock on the new york stock exchange normally is 20% to 30% lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we may not be able to benefit from net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. we suffered significant losses in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for tax (as well as for financial statement) purposes. we were able to carry back part of these losses to recover taxes we had paid with regard to prior years. however, we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses we could not carry back, except to the extent we have taxable income in the 20 year nol carryforward period. from 2008 until 2011, we fully reserved in our financial statements against all our deferred tax assets due to the possibility that we might not have taxable income that would enable us to benefit from them. however, because in 2012 it became more likely than not that we would have sufficient future taxable income to take advantage of our deferred tax assets, in 2012 we reversed a majority of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance and we currently carry the net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. nonetheless, we will not actually realize the deferred tax benefits unless and until we have taxable income, and if we do not have sufficient taxable income during the 20 year nol carryforward period, we may be required to fully reserve against our deferred tax assets again and/or, we will not receive the full tax benefit of the losses we incurred. trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards. under the internal revenue code, if during any three year period there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock by persons who own more than 5% of our stock, our ability to utilize nol carryforwards would be limited to the market value of our company at the time of the change in ownership times the long-term federal tax exempt rate. this change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without anybody becoming a new majority owner. during the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in the holdings of our stock by 5% stockholders. however, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three-year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. if that occurs, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2012 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2012. weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2012. rialto investments loans receivable are not included in the table below because income is recorded through accretable yield due to the loans acquired having deteriorated credit quality, thus we believe they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 68 table of contents information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2012 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total 2012 assets lennar homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 19.6 19.6 19.6 average interest rate 5.8 % 5.8 % rialto investments: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 15.0 15.0 14.9 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 496.3 496.3 496.3 average interest rate 3.5 % 3.5 % variable rate $ 6.0 6.0 6.0 average interest rate 2.7 % 2.7 % loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 30.6 25.8 9.2 0.7 0.7 16.5 83.5 84.2 average interest rate 0.7 % 1.1 % 1.8 % 6.5 % 6.6 % 5.9 % 2.1 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.9 4.4 4.6 average interest rate 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.4 % 5.4 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 94.1 266.6 512.0 278.5 394.5 2,110.9 3,656.6 4,666.5 average interest rate 5.3 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 6.6 % 12.3 % 4.0 % 5.5 % variable rate $ 130.5 87.3 81.4 38.5 10.8 348.5 369.2 average interest rate 4.9 % 6.7 % 5.2 % 3.2 % 3.2 % 5.3 % rialto investments: notes payable: fixed rate (1) $ 316.5 158.6 1.2 4.9 1.1 1.3 483.6 481.9 average interest rate 0.1 % 6.0 % 6.2 % 5.9 % 5.9 % 0.2 % variable rate $ 33.0 57.9 90.9 86.8 average interest rate 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 458.0 458.0 458.0 average interest rate 2.9 % 2.9 % (1) amount includes $470.0 million of notes payable that was consolidated as part of the llc consolidation related to the fdic transaction and is non-recourse to lennar; however, as of november 30, 2012, $223.8 million of cash collections on loans in excess of expenses had been deposited in a defeasance account established for the repayments of the fdic notes payable. 69 table of contentsrisk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses. homebuilding market and economic risks demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control. the economic downturn has adversely affected our operations, and a slow recovery or decline in economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our operations. demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. the economic downturn severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. currently, unemployment is above historically normal levels. high unemployment affects us in two ways. not only are people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs unlikely to purchase new homes, but they may be forced to sell the homes they own or lose their homes in foreclosure, which reduces demand for the homes we build by increasing the overall housing inventory. in addition, many lenders have limited their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. interest rates on residential mortgage loans have increased during 2013 and could continue to increase, and this, together with the reluctance of many lenders to make residential mortgage loans, and possible effects of new governmental regulations, could reduce demand for the homes we sell. unemployment, lack of consumer confidence and other adverse consequences of the recent economic recession could delay a full recovery in real estate markets. if economic conditions were to worsen, the demand for homes could decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a future decline in land values could result in additional write-downs. inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. there are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. as a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for a lower than anticipated profit margin or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. when demand for homes fell during the recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in a highly inflationary environment, depending on industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which could reduce our profit margins. moreover, with inflation, the costs of capital will likely increase and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have begun to experience increases in the prices of labor and materials and some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in the future. homebuilding, financial services and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with the resale of existing homes, including 11 table of contents foreclosed homes and rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prics, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable costs or terms, or cause delays in the construction of our homes. our financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks and other financial institutions, many of which are far larger, and some of which are subject to fewer government regulations than our financial services subsidiaries. mortgage lenders who are subject to fewer regulations or have greater access to low cost capital or different lending criteria may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. the multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators including reits across the united states. we also compete in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments. these competitive conditions could reduce the number of apartments that can be rented, and negatively impact our ability to retain renters, and maintain or increases rental prices. operational risks we may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors' insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly and often include new exclusions based upon past losses such as defective chinese drywall. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements, and assumed responsibility for certain risks and liabilities of those subcontractors. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly, and we may suffer significant losses as a result of claims made against us for which we waived an insurance requirement or were unable to obtain insurance. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to warranty costs and other risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials, such as defective chinese drywall that at one time was installed by subcontractors in homes built for us and for many other homebuilders in florida and elsewhere. when we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with all applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors had been doing. supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. during 2013, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor. 12 table of contents reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional costs and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs. we have substantially reduced our corporate credit line, which could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. prior to 2008, our credit line was as high as $3.1 billion. however, because of the decline in our land purchasing, development and building activities, and our ability to obtain debt and equity financing through the capital markets, we gradually reduced the credit line, and in february 2010, we terminated it (although, we established and continued to maintain letter of credit facilities). in 2012, we established a new credit line, and in 2013, we increased our credit line to $950 million, subject to additional commitments,which were obtained subsequent to november 30, 2013. the proceeds available under the credit facility, which are subject to specified conditions for borrowing, may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. however, this credit line is still substantially less than the credit line we maintained in and prior to 2008. if market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to significantly increase our credit facility, the relatively small size of our credit facility might prevent us from taking full advantage of market opportunities. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. we have a credit facility that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding, acquisitions and other activities. the agreement governing our credit facility (the credit agreement ) makes it a default for us to fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios. in addition, our financial services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. further, our 7.00% senior notes due 2018 contain restrictive covenants imposing operational and financial restrictions on our rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit rialto's ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates and incur additional indebtedness. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could result in the amounts outstanding under our senior notes and convertible senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2013, our consolidated debt, excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities was $4.6 billion. the indentures governing the senior notes and convertible senior notes of lennar corporation do not restrict the incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt by us, and the agreement governing our credit agreement allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. as a consequence of our indebtedness, (1) demands on our cash resources may increase, (2) we are subject to restrictive covenants that further limit our financial and operating flexibility and (3) we may choose to institute self-imposed limits on our indebtedness based on certain considerations including market interest rates, our relative leverage and our strategic plans. for example, as a result of our substantial level of indebtedness and the uncertainties arising in the credit markets and the u.s. economy: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing or on our variable rate indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our cash flows; we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; 13 table of contents we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition, fluctuations in market interest rates may increase interest expense relating to our floating rate indebtedness, which we expect to incur under our credit facility, and may make it difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness at a commercially reasonable rate or at all. there is no guarantee that in the future we will be able to refinance all of our indebtedness as it matures, or that if we do, that the replacement indebtedness will have fixed interest rates or that interest rates on the replacement indebtedness will be as low as the rates on our current indebtedness. our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings on our senior notes and convertible senior notes and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes and convertible senior notes, of which we have $4.0 billion outstanding as of november 30, 2013. negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. if our credit ratings are lowered or rating agencies issue adverse commentaries in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in credit rating downgrades or changes in rating agencies' view of our outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing. the warehouse repurchase credit facilities of our financial services segment will mature in 2014 and 2015 and the warehouse repurchase credit facilities of rmf will mature in 2015, and we may be unable to renew or replace these facilities on as favorable terms or at all. our financial services segment has an aggregate committed and uncommitted amount under three warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $725 million and $100 million , respectively, as of november 30, 2013 that will mature during 2014 and 2015. the financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf in our rialto segment has an aggregate committed amount under two warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $500 million as of november 30, 2013 that will mature during 2015. rmf uses these facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment and rmf, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' actions that are contrary to our instructions or failure to fulfill their obligations. we participate in joint ventures in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of certain obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of our partner's obligations at what can be a significant cost to us. for example, as part of our multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs and we could be responsible for cost overruns. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in some of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners when such action may be in our best interest. if the joint ventures or their participants do not honor their obligations or take actions that are contrary to our instructions, we may be required to expend additional resources or suffer losses, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. the unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements, and we may need to provide a portion of their required funds. several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position. 14 table of contents our investments in new businesses may not be as successful as we anticipate, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses and adversely affect our operations. we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities. in july 2013, we began commercial loan origination activities through rmf. the mortgage origination business represents a new business line for us distinct from the direct investments and investment management and asset management activities upon which our rialto segment had previously focused. in addition, our multifamily business, in which we develop multifamily rental properties, is a new business in which we have invested substantial resources. as new businesses, these endeavors and others in which we may invest may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, significant start-up costs, insufficient revenues to offset expenses associated with these new investments and inadequate return of capital on our investments, and may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. the loss of the services of certain of our senior management or a significant number of our employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon performance and active participation of our senior management. we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of senior management. if we were to lose any members of our senior management, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our results of operations could be negatively affected. further, the loss of a significant number of employees or our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. our financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes and a slowdown in refinance transactions. approximately 52% of the mortgage loans made by our financial services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. in addition, the revenues of our financial services segment would be adversely affected by a continuing or further decrease in refinance transactions, such as the decrease that we experienced during the second half of fiscal 2013. if our ability to resell mortgages is impaired, it could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. the secondary mortgage market was severely impacted by the decline in property values between 2007 and 2011 and it has not recovered fully, even though property values in many areas of the country stabilized significantly, and rose during 2013. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. our financial services segment has received demands that it repurchase mortgage loans it sold in the secondary mortgage market and we may be required to repurchase loans in excess of amounts reserved. particularly during 2009, 2010 and 2011, our financial services segment received demands that it repurchase certain loans that it had previously sold in the secondary mortgage market. the demands related primarily to loans originated during 2005 through 2007 and were frequently based on assertions that information borrowers gave our financial services segment was not accurate. in many instances, we have successfully disputed the claims. however, in some instances we have settled claims to maintain our business relationships with the claimants or to avoid litigation costs. in other instances, there are active disputes regarding certain loans. we have established a reserve based upon, among other things, an analysis of repurchase requests received, an estimate of potential repurchase claims not yet received and our actual past repurchases and losses through the disposition of loans we repurchased, as well as previous settlements. at november 30, 2013 and 2012 , this reserve was $9.3 million and $7.3 million , respectively. if there is an unexpected increase in the amount of repurchase demands we receive that we believe we should settle, or if we are not able to resolve existing repurchase demands on a basis consistent with our experience to date, the cost to us with regard to the repurchase demands could exceed the reserve we have established. although our investments in distressed real estate assets normally are acquired at significant discounts, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly, we could suffer losses. the rialto segment focuses on identifying and underwriting real estate related investment opportunities, making real estate related investments, directly or through funds they manage, and overseeing those investments, including in particular the workout of non-performing or underperforming loans and improvement and disposition of properties acquired through foreclosure or in a similar manner. investing in distressed debt and foreclosed properties presents many risks in addition to 15 table of contents those inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the anticipated restructuring and recapitalization of the united states real estate markets will not be completed for many years, the risk that defaults on debt instruments in which the rialto segment and the funds it manages and invest will be greater than anticipated and the risk that if the rialto segment or any of the funds it manages has to liquidate its investments into the market, it will suffer losses in doing so. there is also the possibility that, even if the investments made by the rialto segment or the funds it manages perform as expected, absence of a liquid market for these investments will result in a need to reduce the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. if rialto's investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses and we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. when a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. the book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property if classified as held-and-used, or the market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs if classified as held-for-sale (fair value), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. if the valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. material additional charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition. there is substantial competition for the types of investments on which our rialto segment is focused, and this may limit the ability of the rialto segment or the investment funds it manages to make investments on terms that are attractive to it. our rialto segment and its two largest funds have been focused in substantial part on investments in distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the dislocations during the last several years in the markets for real estate, mortgage loans and real estate related securities. some of the opportunities to acquire distressed assets have arisen under programs involving co-investments with and financing provided by agencies of the federal government. more recently, we have begun directly making mortgage loans secured by commercial real estate. there are many firms and investment funds that are trying to acquire the types of assets on which our rialto segment and the investment funds it manages are focused, and it is likely that a significant number of additional investment funds will be formed in the future with the objective of acquiring those types of assets. in particular, there is an exception in the rules under the dodd-frank act limiting banks' investments in funds for investments in funds that are primarily engaged in purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages on and other interests in real estate, and there is another exception for investments in entities formed by the fdic to facilitate the disposition of assets it acquires as a conservator or receiver. at least some of the firms with which the rialto segment competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of capital that is lower than that of the rialto segment or the investment funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for our rialto segment or the investment funds it manages. we could be adversely affected by court and governmental responses to improper mortgage foreclosure procedures. during recent years it appears that mortgage lenders and mortgage loan servicers have in a number of instances failed to comply with the requirements for obtaining and foreclosing mortgage loans. even if neither our rialto segment nor any servicing organization it uses does anything improper in foreclosing mortgages held by the rialto segment or entities it manages, reaction by courts and regulatory agencies against apparently widespread instances of improper mortgage foreclosure procedures could make it more difficult and more expensive for our rialto segment to foreclose mortgages that secure loans that it or entities it manages own. the ability of our rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions of distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets. a principal factor in a prospective purchaser's decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. the cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. we believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our rialto segment will enable the rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. when we decide whether to purchase particular distressed assets and what we or a fund we manage should be willing to pay for them, one consideration is whether, and to what extent, we think we will be able to obtain above average returns in resolving the assets. if we are not able to achieve those above average returns, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the supply of real estate related assets available at discounts from normal prices will likely decrease if the real estate markets continue to improve, which could require our rialto segment to change its investment strategy. a significant part of rialto segment's current strategy is to seek above normal risk adjusted returns for us and for the investment funds we manage by focusing on investments in real estate related assets that are available at below market prices because of the effects of the dislocations in the united states real estate markets over the past several years. a continued 16 table of contents recovery of the real estate markets would probably benefit the investments we and the funds we manage have made, but it probably would substantially reduce or end the availability of the types of distressed asset investments we seek. we are currently beginning to engage in activities that are more suitable for periods of healthy real estate markets. but those types of activities may not offer the same profit potential as investing in distressed real estate assets. restrictions in agreements related to fund i and fund ii (the "funds") could prevent the rialto segment from making investments. the rialto segment manages the funds, which were formed to make investments in, among other things, distressed real estate related debt and foreclosed properties. in order to protect investors in the funds against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to the funds, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for the funds except to the extent an advisory committee consisting of representatives of fund i or fund ii investors decides that fund i or fund ii should not make particular investments, and we will probably make similar commitments with regard to subsequent funds the rialto segment creates. there is an exception that permits us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations. however, it is likely that for several years the restrictions will prevent the rialto segment from making investments in distressed mortgage loans or foreclosed properties other than through fund i or fund ii (of which we currently own approximately 10.7% and 9.0%, respectively), except to the extent the applicable advisory committee decides that a fund should not make particular investments. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods and wildfires, and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. regulatory risks reduced availability of mortgage financing and increased interest rates could reduce the demand for the homes that we offer. many purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price. many lenders and other holders of mortgage loans have been adversely affected in recent years by a combination of reduced ability of homeowners to meet mortgage obligations and reduced value of the homes that secure mortgage loans. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. further, in january 2013, the federal consumer financial protection bureau proposed regulations that could make it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance home purchases. in addition, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae and freddie mac, including the length of time for which they may continue to exist and in what form they may operate during that period. these organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. these changes in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our homes, thus having a negative effect on demand for our homes. further, while interest rates for home mortgage loans have increased during 2013, they are still generally low compared with historic norms. mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, which could adversely affect the demand for our homes. if interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance homes purchases is adversely affected, our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be negatively affected. 17 table of contents we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the regulation of the financial industry, including those under the dodd-frank wall street reform act, may have adverse effects on our industry. for example, the dodd-frank act requires the federal banking agencies to promulgate rules requiring mortgage lenders to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. those rules were adopted in december 2013, and appear to apply only to fdic-insured depositories, bank holding companies and their affiliates. however, the statutory provision may also apply to other large entities including our entities involved in mortgage origination and securitization activities. if we were required to retain a portion of the mortgages that we originate, that could have a significant adverse effect on the profitability of our mortgage financing activities. laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us may change at any time. regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. our business could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our business. our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws. our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. the courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. the equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. for example, nevada has enacted a law providing that if an assignee of a note secured by real property paid less than the face amount of the note, the creditor cannot recover more in a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. if the nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a significant number and variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. the impact of environmental laws often varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, potential injunctions and other damages. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damage on our property regardless of fault. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to licensing, lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and financing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our home buyers' cost of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our home buyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and 18 table of contents land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our business that can be significant. we can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. when we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of the practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive, which could adversely affect our results of operations. under current tax law and policy, certain significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's or households federal, and in some cases state, tax liability. however, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which was signed into law in january 2013 by the president resulted in higher income tax rates and limits the amount of tax deductions high-income individuals and households can utilize in computing their income tax liability. the changes limit the ability of high-income individuals and households to deduct certain itemized deductions such as home mortgage interest and real estate taxes, making the after-tax cost of owning a home higher than before such changes. any additional increases in personal income tax rates and/or additional tax deduction limits or restrictions enacted at the federal or state levels, could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of new homes, including our homes, and could adversely affect our results of operations. other risks we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 44% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires. the trading price of our class b common stock is substantially less than that of our class a common stock. the only difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, the trading price of the class b common stock on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") normally is 20% to 30% lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. as of november 30, 2013, our deferred tax assets, net, were $376.8 million . at november 30, 2013, we had federal tax effected nol carryforwards totaling $88.1 million that may be carried forward up to 20 years to offset future taxable income and begin to expire in 2025 . as of november 30, 2013,we need to generate $251.8 million of pre-tax earnings in future periods to realize all of our federal nol carryforwards and an additional $399.1 million of pre-tax earnings to utilize our net federal deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary tax differences. at november 30, 2013, we had state tax effected nol carryforwards totaling $143.6 million that may be carried forward from 5 to 20 years, depending on the tax jurisdiction, with losses expiring between 2013 and 2032 . as of november 30, 2013, state tax effected nol carryforwards totaling $2.7 million may expire over the next twelve months, if sufficient taxable income is not generated in the applicable states to utilize the net operating losses. at november 30, 2013, we had a valuation allowance of $10.6 million against our state nol carryforwards 19 table of contents because we believe it is more likely than not that a portion of our state nol carryforwards will not be realized due to the limited carryforward periods in certain states. if we are unable to use our nols, or use of our nols is limited, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards. under the internal revenue code, if during any three year period there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock by persons who own more than 5% of our stock (treating all under 5% stockholders as a single 5% stockholder), our ability to utilize nol carryforwards would be limited to the market value of our company at the time of the change in ownership times the long-term federal tax exempt rate. this change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without anybody becoming a new majority owner. during the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in the holdings of our stock by 5% stockholders of which we are aware. however, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three-year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. if that occurs, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited. information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records. these information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the internet infrastructure that have experienced security breaches, cyber-attacks, significant systems failures and electrical outages in the past. a material network breach in the security of our information technology systems could include the theft of customer, employee or company data. a security breach or a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, adversely impact our sales and revenue and require us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues. the release of confidential information as a result of a security breach could also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. if we were to experience a security breach, cyber-attack, data theft or other significant systems failures, it could have a material and adverse effect on our operations. increases in the rate of cancellations of existing home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our home buyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local law, the home buyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if the current industry recovery does not continue or another decline in economic conditions occurs, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more home buyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. 20 table of contents our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor. claims have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. should such claims be resolved in an unfavorable manner or should additional claims be filed in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected . we experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. as a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of both national and local factors, including, among others, periods of economic downturn in the industry, raw material and labor shortages, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. an increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions and environmental events could limit, delay and/or increase the costs to develop land and build new homes and reduce the value of our land and housing inventory in locations that become less desirable to consumers or blocked to development. projected climate change, if it occurs, may exacerbate the scarcity of water and other natural resources in affected regions, which could limit, prevent or increase the costs of residential development in certain areas. in addition, government mandates, standards or regulations intended to mitigate or reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts could result in prohibitions or severe restrictions on land development in certain areas, increased energy, transportation and raw material costs that make building materials less available or more expensive, or cause us to incur compliance expenses and other financial obligations to meet permitting or land development or home construction-related requirements that we will be unable to fully recover (due to market conditions or other factors), and reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely effect our consolidated financial statements, potentially to a material degree. as a result, climate change impacts, and laws and land development and home construction standards, and/or the manner in which they are interpreted or implemented, to address potential climate change impacts, could increase our costs and have a long-term adverse impact on our business and our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2013 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2013 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2013 . rialto loans receivable, net are not included in the table below because income is recorded through accretable yield due to the loans acquired having deteriorated credit quality, thus, we believe they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 77 table of contents information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2013 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total 2013 assets lennar homebuilding: investments available-for-sale: fixed rate $ 40.0 40.0 40.0 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.7 % rialto investments: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 16.1 16.1 16.0 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 44.2 44.2 44.2 average interest rate 4.9 % 4.9 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 388.2 388.2 388.2 average interest rate 4.3 % 4.3 % variable rate $ 26.0 26.0 26.0 average interest rate 3.2 % 3.2 % loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 34.1 20.3 9.1 0.8 1.6 19.0 84.9 84.6 average interest rate 1.0 % 1.3 % 1.8 % 5.8 % 4.9 % 5.2 % 2.2 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.3 3.8 4.1 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 340.4 559.9 263.0 398.4 650.8 1,688.9 3,901.4 4,665.3 average interest rate 5.2 % 5.7 % 6.5 % 12.2 % 5.6 % 3.8 % 5.5 % variable rate $ 54.1 84.8 154.1 293.0 306.2 average interest rate 3.1 % 3.1 % 2.4 % 2.7 % rialto investments: notes payable and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 8.0 5.4 9.1 1.1 251.2 0.1 274.9 274.9 average interest rate 5.2 % 4.7 % 5.3 % 6.0 % 5.1 % 6.0 % 5.1 % variable rate $ 109.0 58.0 167.0 163.5 average interest rate 3.1 % 4.5 % 3.6 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 374.2 374.2 374.2 average interest rate 2.5 % 2.5 % lennar multifamily: notes payable: fixed rate $ 11.9 2.0 13.9 13.9 average interest rate 7.0 % 3.3 % 6.5 % 78 table of contentsrisk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses. market and economic risks the homebuilding recovery has continued its progression at a slow and steady pace, however a downturn in the recovery or decline in economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. in fiscal 2014, we experienced a steadily improving housing market, and in our business saw a strong recovery in the number of new sales contracts signed and improved gross margins compared with the prior year. however, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. the economic downturn that began in 2007 was one of the most severe in u.s. history, and severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. we cannot predict whether the recovery in the housing market will continue. if the recovery were to slow or stop, or economic conditions were to worsen, the demand for new homes would likely decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. for several years we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option expenses. a future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs. inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. there are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. as a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for a lower than anticipated profit margin or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. when demand for homes fell during the recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in a highly inflationary environment, depending on industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have been experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials and there could be a significant increase in inflation in the future. 9 table of contents homebuilding, mortgage lending, distressed asset investing and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. homebuilding. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable costs or terms. lennar financial services . our lennar financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions, many of which are far larger, and some of which are subject to fewer government regulations, than our financial services subsidiaries. mortgage lenders who are subject to fewer regulations than we are or have greater access to low cost funds or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. lennar multifamily . our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators across the united states. we also compete in securing capital, partners and equity, and in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments. these competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. rialto . there are many firms and investment funds that compete with rialto in trying to acquire distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the recent recession. at least some of the firms with which rialto competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of funds that is lower than that of rialto or the funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for rialto or the funds it manages. our rmf business competes with national and regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate and non-bank lenders, many of which are far larger than rmf or have access to lower cost funds than we do. operational risks we may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us. as a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. we are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies are intended to protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective chinese drywall and other products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us for all the costs we incur. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials, such as defective chinese drywall that at one time was installed by subcontractors in homes built for us and for many other homebuilders in florida and elsewhere. although our subcontractors have principal responsibility for defects in the work they do, we have ultimate responsibility to the homebuyers. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did. 10 table of contents supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. during 2014, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass additional costs of materials and labor on to homebuyers. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs. increased demand for homes could require us to increase our corporate credit line, and our inability to do that could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. one of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. at november 30, 2014, we had a $1.5 billion credit facility, subject in part to additional commitments. if market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to increase our credit facility or obtain funds from other types of financings, that could prevent us from taking full advantage of the enhanced market opportunities. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. we have a credit facility that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding, acquisitions and other activities. the agreement governing our credit facility (the credit agreement ) makes it a default for us if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios. in addition, our lennar financial services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. further, rialto's 7.00% senior notes due 2018 contain restrictive covenants imposing operational and financial restrictions on our rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit rialto's ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates or incur additional indebtedness. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could result in the amounts outstanding under our senior notes and convertible senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2014 , our consolidated debt, excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $5.2 billion. the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes do not restrict the incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt by us, and the agreement governing our credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing or on our variable rate indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our cash flows; we may find it difficult to, or may be unable to, obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; 11 table of contents we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. our lennar financial services segment and rmf have warehouse facilities that mature in 2015, and if we cannot renew or replace these facilities, we may have to reduce our mortgage lending activities. our lennar financial services segment has an aggregate committed and uncommitted amount under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $925 million as of november 30, 2014 , all of which will mature during 2015. our lennar financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf, the commercial mortgage lender in our rialto segment, has an aggregate committed amount under two warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $650 million as of november 30, 2014 both of which will mature during 2015. rmf uses these facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our lennar financial services segment and rmf, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes. in our homebuilding and lennar multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them. for example, as part of our lennar multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venturers have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost overruns. although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners when such action may be in our best interest. several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position. our new businesses may not be as successful as we anticipate, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses and adversely affect our operations. we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities. in july 2013, we began commercial mortgage loan origination activities through rmf. in addition, during 2012 and 2013, we began our lennar multifamily business in which we have invested substantial resources to participate in the development of multifamily rental properties. further, under our homebuilding umbrella, we are investing in a solar business and a business focused on the development, investment and management of commercial properties. as with any new businesses, these endeavors, and others we may undertake in the future, are likely to involve significant risks and uncertainties, including significant start-up costs and the possibility that the new businesses will not be profitable or will not generate the expected returns on our investments, and the new businesses may require attention from our senior management that reduces their ability to focus on our core activities. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 table of contents our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes and convertible senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes and convertible senior notes, of which we have $4.3 billion outstanding as of november 30, 2014. among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues. many purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. the uncertainties in the mortgage markets, including the tightening of credit standards and increased government regulation, could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing them from purchasing our homes. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. in addition, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae and freddie mac, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. it is not clear how, if fannie mae and freddie mac curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. there is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyer's effective cost of the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in tax laws can increase the after tax cost of owning a home, and further tax law changes could adversely affect demand for the homes we build. under current tax law certain significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, tax liability. however, the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which was signed into law in january 2013, resulted in higher income tax rates and limits the amount of mortgage interest individuals can deduct in computing their income tax liability. the limit on deductibility of mortgage interest can increase the after-tax cost of owning a home for some individuals. any additional increases in personal income tax rates and/or additional tax deduction limits could adversely impact demand for new homes, including homes we build, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our lennar financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes or by a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. approximately 57% of the mortgage loans made by our lennar financial services segment in 2014 were made to buyers of homes we built. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. in addition, the revenues of our lennar financial services segment would be adversely affected by a decrease in refinance transactions, such as the decrease that we experienced during the first half of fiscal 2014. if our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. 13 table of contents if real estate rialto acquired through foreclosures is not properly valued when it is acquired, we could be required to take valuation charge-offs, which would reduce our earnings. when a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. the book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to its updated market value (or its updated market value less estimated selling costs if the foreclosed property is classified as held-for-sale), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. if the revised valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. material charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition. the ability of our rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions of distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets. a principal factor in a prospective purchaser's decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. the cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. we believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our rialto segment enable the rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. when rialto decides whether it or a fund it manages should purchase particular distressed assets and what it or the fund should be willing to pay for them, one consideration is whether, and to what extent, rialto thinks it will be able to obtain above average returns in resolving the assets. if rialto is not able to achieve its anticipated returns, it or the fund it manages will not realize the expected return on its investment. regulatory risks we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. we are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses. we may be adversely impacted by laws and regulations directed at the financial industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the financial industry may have adverse effects on aspects of our businesses. for example, in october 2014, final rules were promulgated under the dodd-frank wall street reform act that requires mortgage lenders or third-party b-piece buyers to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. we have determined that these rules do not affect our residential mortgage lending operations at this time; however, the new rules may adversely impact our commercial mortgage lending operations in our rmf business. while we are still assessing the impact of the new rules on the market, we believe that the rules may reduce the price of commercial mortgage-backed securities ("cmbs") and limit the overall volume of cmbs related loan purchases, which could impact the financial results of our rmf business. in addition, if our residential mortgage lending operations became subject to these rules in the future, that would substantially increase the amount we would have to invest in our mortgage lending operations and increase our risks with regard to loans we originate and sell in the secondary mortgage market. governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be 14 table of contents opposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers' costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws. our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. the courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. the equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. for example, nevada has enacted a law providing that if the amount an assignee of a mortgage note paid to acquire the note is less than the face amount of the note, the creditor cannot recover more through a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. if the nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, it could materially and adversely affect our ability and the ability of funds we manage to profit from purchases of distressed debt. other risks our results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons. we establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, they will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. however, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments. 15 table of contents information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems, including internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. our it systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and even the enhanced controls we have installed might be breached. if our it systems cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations. if our cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about purchasers of our homes or borrowers from our mortgage lending subsidiaries. this could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of our computer systems. increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the home buyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. expansion of our services and investments into international markets through our rialto segment subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. in december 2014, fund ii, of which our rialto segment owns an interest and for which it performs asset management services, acquired an interest in a joint venture which holds real estate assets in spain. expansion of our services and investments into spain and any expansion into other international markets in the future, could result in operational problems not typically experienced in the united states. our activities outside the united states will be subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, and competitive disadvantages due to our need to comply with u.s. anti-bribery laws. there also are tax consequences of doing business outside the u.s., both under u.s. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business. we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. at november 30, 2014 , we had state tax nol carryforwards totaling $113.8 million that will expire between 2015 and 2034 . as of november 30, 2014 , state tax nol carryforwards totaling $2.0 million will expire over the next twelve months, if sufficient taxable income is not generated in the applicable states to utilize the net operating losses. at november 30, 2014 , we had a valuation allowance of $8.0 million against our state nol carryforwards because we believe it is more likely than not that a portion of our state nol carryforwards will not be realized due to the limited carryforward periods in certain states. if we are unable to use our nols, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. as a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in 16 table of contents the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities, of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 44% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires. the trading price of our class b common stock normally is lower than that of our class a common stock. the only difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, the trading price of the class b common stock on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") normally is lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of class b common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our class b common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. the limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of a significant number of shares of our class b common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the class b common stock. changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts could result in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, or cause us to incur compliance expenses that we will be unable fully to recover, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, debt obligations, loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment. we utilize forward commitments and option contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our mortgage loan portfolio. the table below provides information at november 30, 2014 about our significant financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents 70 table of contents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2014 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2014 . rialto loans receivable, net are not included in the table below because these loans were acquired having deteriorated credit quality, thus, we believe they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2014 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total 2014 assets rialto: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 17.3 17.3 17.2 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 113.6 113.6 113.6 average interest rate 4.7 % 4.7 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-sale: fixed rate $ 676.2 676.2 676.2 average interest rate 4.1 % 4.1 % variable rate $ 62.2 62.2 62.2 average interest rate 3.2 % 3.2 % loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 20.2 13.3 6.2 0.8 1.8 26.2 68.5 68.3 average interest rate 1.2 % 1.2 % 2.0 % 5.5 % 3.6 % 5.3 % 3.0 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.9 3.4 3.5 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 614.0 294.9 401.2 651.0 1,125.5 1,424.4 4,511.0 5,576.1 average interest rate 5.4 % 6.1 % 12.1 % 5.6 % 4.4 % 3.8 % 5.3 % variable rate $ 45.4 122.9 10.9 179.2 184.0 average interest rate 3.3 % 2.2 % 2.5 % 2.5 % rialto: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 3.4 63.7 1.1 353.1 421.3 441.7 average interest rate 7.3 % 3.8 % 5.9 % 5.2 % 5.0 % variable rate $ 141.3 30.3 30.3 201.9 198.6 average interest rate 2.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 3.1 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 698.4 5.7 704.1 704.1 average interest rate 2.5 % 10.0 % 2.5 % 71 table of contentsrisk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could materially affect us and our businesses. market and economic risks the homebuilding recovery has continued its progression at a slow and steady pace; however, a downturn in the recovery or decline in economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. in fiscal 2015 , we experienced a steadily improving housing market, and in our business we saw an increase in new sales contracts signed and home deliveries compared with the prior year. however, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. the prior economic downturn severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. we cannot predict whether the recovery in the housing market will continue. if the recovery were to slow or stop, or economic conditions were to worsen, the resulting decline in demand for new homes would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. during the prior economic downturn, we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option values. a future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs. inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. there are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. this is particularly true when entitled land becomes increasingly scarce, as it has recently, and the cost of purchasing such land may be relatively high. also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. as a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for lower than anticipated profit margins or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. when demand for homes fell during the recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. although we have reduced our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in our homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs beyond what we can recover through price increases. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in an inflationary environment, depending on homebuilding industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have recently been experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials above the general inflation rate. 10 table of contents homebuilding, mortgage lending, distressed asset investing and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. homebuilding . the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. lennar financial services . our lennar financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions, many of which are far larger, and some of which are subject to fewer government regulations, than our financial services subsidiaries. mortgage lenders who are subject to fewer regulations than we are or have greater access to low cost funds or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. lennar multifamily . our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators at locations across the united states where we have investments in rental properties. we also compete in securing capital, partners and equity, and we compete in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments. these competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. rialto . there are many firms and investment funds that compete with rialto in trying to acquire distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the recent recession or otherwise. at least some of the firms with which rialto competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of funds or targeted investment return that is lower than that of rialto or the funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for rialto or the funds it manages. our rmf business competes with national and regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate and non-bank lenders, many of which are far larger than rmf or have access to lower cost funds than we do. operational risks we may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us. as a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. we are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies are intended to protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. however, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us for all the costs we incur. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did. 11 table of contents supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. during 2015, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass additional costs of materials and labor on to homebuyers. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs. increased demand for homes could require us to increase our corporate credit line, and our inability to do that could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. one of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. at november 30, 2015 , we had a $1.6 billion revolving credit facility ("credit facility"), which includes a $163 million accordion feature, subject in part to additional commitments. if market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to increase our credit facility or obtain funds from other types of financings, that could prevent us from taking full advantage of the enhanced market opportunities. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. we have a credit facility that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding operations, acquisitions and other activities. the agreement governing our credit facility (the credit agreement ) makes it a default for us if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios. in addition, our lennar financial services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. further, rialto's 7.00% senior notes due 2018 contain restrictive covenants imposing operational and financial restrictions on our rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit rialto's ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates or incur additional indebtedness. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could cause the amounts outstanding under our senior notes and convertible senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2015 , our consolidated debt, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $5.4 billion. the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes do not restrict the incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt by us, and the agreement governing our credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and homebuilding industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our earnings and cash flows; we may find it difficult to, or may be unable to, obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; 12 table of contents we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance or obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. at november 30, 2015 , we had outstanding performance and surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) of $1.3 billion , which includes $223.4 million related to pending litigation. although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all development and construction activities are completed. our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and other factors, including the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. the ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. if we are unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our lennar financial services segment and rmf have warehouse facilities that mature between 2016 and 2018, and if we cannot renew or replace these facilities, we may have to reduce our mortgage lending activities. our lennar financial services segment has an aggregate committed and uncommitted amount under three warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.4 billion as of november 30, 2015 , all of which will mature during 2016. our lennar financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf, the commercial mortgage lender in our rialto segment, has an aggregate committed amount under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.0 billion as of november 30, 2015 , all of which will mature between 2016 and 2018. rmf uses these facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our lennar financial services segment and rmf, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes. in our homebuilding and lennar multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them. for example, as part of our lennar multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venturers have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost overruns. although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners when such action may be in our best interest. several of the joint ventures in which we participate may in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their borrowings. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the borrowings and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 table of contents our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes and convertible senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes and convertible senior notes, of which we have $4.7 billion outstanding, net of debt issuance costs and excluding rialto's 7.00% senior notes due 2018, as of november 30, 2015 . among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues. most purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. the uncertainties in the mortgage markets, including the recent tightening of credit standards and increased government regulation, could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for home purchases, thus preventing them from purchasing our homes. changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. in addition, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae and freddie mac, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. it is not clear how, if fannie mae and freddie mac were to curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. there is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyer's effective cost of the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. our lennar financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes or by a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. approximately 50% of the mortgage loans made by our lennar financial services segment in 2015 were made to buyers of homes we built. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. in addition, the revenues of our lennar financial services segment would be adversely affected by a decrease in refinance transactions, such as the decrease that we experienced during the first half of fiscal 2014 and probably would experience again if mortgage interest rates rise. if our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. we may be liable for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with sale of loans. while substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, we remain responsible for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with such sales. mortgage investors could seek to have us buy back mortgage loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgage loans that we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. in addition, when we sell loans to securitization trusts or other purchasers in our rialto segment, we give limited industry standard representations and warranties about the loans, which, if incorrect, may require us to repurchase the loans, replace them with substitute loans or indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of 14 table of contents breaches of representations and warranties. if we have significant liabilities with respect to such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly our financial condition. new mortgage products that we may offer may expose us to liability. through our lennar financial services segment, we offer non-qualified mortgage loan products which, unlike qualified mortgages, do not benefit from a presumption that when the loan is made the borrower has the ability to repay the loan. while we have taken substantial steps to try to mitigate exposure to bad credits and to insure that as to each loan we have made a reasonable determination that the borrower will have the ability to repay the loan, this type of product has increased risk and exposure to litigation and claims of borrowers. if we were to make a loan as to which we did not satisfy the regulatory standards for ascertaining the borrower's ability to repay the loan, the consequences could include giving the borrower a defense to repayment of the loan, which may prevent us from collecting interest and principal on that loan. if we have sold the loan or the servicing of the loan, this may violate the representations and warranties we made in such a sale and impose upon us an obligation to repurchase the loan. if real estate rialto acquires through foreclosures is not properly valued when it is acquired, we could be required to take valuation charge-offs, which would reduce our earnings. when a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. the book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to its updated market value (or its updated market value less estimated selling costs if the foreclosed property is classified as held-for-sale), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. if the revised valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. material charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition. regulatory risks we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. we are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses. we may be adversely impacted by laws and regulations directed at the financial industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the financial industry may have adverse effects on aspects of our businesses. for example, in october 2014, final rules were promulgated under the dodd-frank wall street reform act that require mortgage lenders or third-party b-piece buyers to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. we have determined that these rules do not affect our residential mortgage lending operations at this time; however, the new rules may adversely impact our rmf subsidiary's commercial mortgage lending operations. while we are still assessing the impact of the new rules on the market, we believe that the rules may reduce the price of commercial mortgage-backed securities ("cmbs") and limit the overall volume of cmbs related loan purchases, which could impact the financial results of our rmf business. in addition, if our residential mortgage lending operations became subject to these rules in the future, that would substantially increase the amount we would have to invest in our mortgage lending operations and increase our risks with regard to loans we originate and sell in the secondary mortgage market. governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry 15 table of contents out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers' costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. we could be hurt by efforts to impose joint employer liability on persons with regard to labor law violations by other persons whose employees perform contracted services. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or the work rules they impose on their employees. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted for services. the national labor relations board recently ruled that a firm could be held responsible for labor violations by its contractors. if that ruling is upheld on appeal, it could make us responsible for labor violations by our subcontractors. governmental rulings that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us under our subcontractor relationships. our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws. our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. the courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. the equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. for example, nevada has enacted a law providing that if the amount an assignee of a mortgage note paid to acquire the note is less than the face amount of the note, the creditor cannot recover more through a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. if the nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, it could materially and adversely affect our ability and the ability of funds we manage to profit from purchases of distressed debt. 16 table of contents other risks our results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons. we establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, they will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. however, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments. we have a substantial judgment against us in a contract suit, which we have bonded and are appealing as disclosed in item 3. legal proceedings. information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we rely extensively on information technology ("it") systems, including internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. our it systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and even the enhanced controls we have installed might be breached. if our it systems cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations. if our cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about purchasers of our homes or borrowers from our mortgage lending subsidiaries. this could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of our computer systems. increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the home buyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. expansion of our services and investments into international markets through our rialto segment subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. fund ii, of which our rialto segment owns an interest and for which it performs asset management services, owns an interest in a joint venture which holds real estate assets in spain. expansion of our services and investments in spain and any expansion into other international markets in the future, could result in operational problems not typically experienced in the united states. our activities outside the united states are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the implementation of currency controls, material changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, differences in the legal and regulatory systems, reputational risks and cultural differences which may lead to competitive disadvantages due to our need to comply with u.s. securities and anti-bribery laws. there also are tax consequences of doing business outside the u.s., both under u.s. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business. 17 table of contents we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. at november 30, 2015 , we had state tax net operating loss ( nol ) carryforwards totaling $120.7 million that will expire between 2016 and 2035 . as of november 30, 2015 , state tax nol carryforwards totaling $0.1 million will expire over the next twelve months, if sufficient taxable income is not generated in the applicable states to utilize the net operating losses. at november 30, 2015 , we had a valuation allowance of $5.9 million , primarily related to state tax nol carryforwards that are not more likely than not to be utilized due to an inability to carry back these losses in most states and short carryforward periods that exist in certain states. if we are unable to use our nols, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. as a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart a. miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities, of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 44% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to cause our stockholders to approve actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires. the trading price of our class b common stock normally is lower than that of our class a common stock. the only difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, the trading price of the class b common stock on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") normally is substantially lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of class b common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our class b common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. the limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of even a relatively small number of shares of our class b common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the class b common stock. changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, or cause us to incur compliance expenses that we will be unable fully to recover, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to a number of market risks in the ordinary course of business. our primary market risk exposure relates to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and outstanding variable rate debt. for fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. for variable debt such as our amended revolving credit facility and lennar financial services' and rialto's warehouse repurchase facilities, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the outstanding borrowings on the debt facilities, but do affect our earnings and cash flows. in our lennar financial services operations, we utilize mortgage backed securities forward commitments, option contracts and investor commitments to protect the value of fixed rate-locked commitments and loans held-for-sale from fluctuations in mortgage-related interest rates. to mitigate interest risk associated with rialto's loans held-for-sale, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to risk from the time a borrower locks a loan until the time the loan is securitized. we hedge our interest rate exposure through entering into interest rate swap futures. we also manage a portion of our credit exposure by buying protection within the cmbx and cdx markets. we do not enter into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. the table below provides information at november 30, 2015 about our significant instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2015 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2015 . rialto loans receivable, net are not included in the table below because these loans were acquired having deteriorated credit quality, thus, we believe they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. 73 table of contents information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2015 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total 2015 assets rialto: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 25.6 25.6 25.2 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 17.3 20.2 2.3 2.2 2.0 23.9 67.9 66.7 average interest rate 1.2 % 2.0 % 4.4 % 3.8 % 3.4 % 4.8 % 3.0 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.8 3.3 3.3 average interest rate 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 307.0 412.1 655.8 1,377.8 2.9 2,161.0 4,916.6 5,813.4 average interest rate 5.9 % 12.0 % 5.6 % 4.4 % 3.7 % 4.3 % 5.2 % variable rate $ 67.7 77.2 144.9 149.3 average interest rate 3.2 % 2.9 % 3.0 % rialto: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 37.9 1.1 1.2 351.5 391.7 423.1 average interest rate 4.6 % 5.9 % 5.9 % 7.0 % 6.7 % variable rate $ 353.4 30.3 383.7 383.6 average interest rate 2.5 % 4.5 % 2.7 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 858.3 858.3 858.3 average interest rate 2.5 % 2.5 % 74 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could materially affect us and our businesses. market and economic risks the homebuilding recovery has continued its progression at a slow and steady pace; however, a downturn in the recovery or decline in economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. in fiscal 2016 , we continued to experience a steadily improving housing market, and we saw increases in new sales contracts signed and homes delivered compared with the prior year. however, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. the prior economic downturn severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. we cannot predict whether the recovery in the housing market will continue. if the recovery were to slow or stop, or there were another economic downturn, the resulting decline in demand for new homes would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 table of contents during the prior economic downturn, we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option values. a future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs. inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. there are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or homesites we acquired at costs we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. this is particularly true when entitled land becomes increasingly scarce, as it has recently, and the cost of purchasing such land may be relatively high. also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. as a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for lower than anticipated profit margins or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. when demand for homes fell during the most recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. although we have reduced our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in our homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs beyond what we can recover through price increases. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in an inflationary environment, depending on homebuilding industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, in recent years we have been experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials above the general inflation rate. homebuilding, mortgage lending, distressed asset investing and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. homebuilding . the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. lennar financial services . our lennar financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions. mortgage lenders who have greater access to low cost funds, superior technologies or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. rialto . there are many firms and investment funds that compete with rialto in trying to acquire distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets. at least some of the firms with which rialto competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of funds or targeted investment return that is lower than that of rialto or the funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for rialto or the funds it manages. our rmf business competes with national and regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate and non-bank lenders, many of which are far larger than rmf or have access to lower cost funds than we do. lennar multifamily . our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators at locations across the united states where we have investments in rental properties. we also compete in securing partners, equity capital and debt financing, and we compete in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing or newly built rental apartments, as well as with sellers of homes. these competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. operational risks we may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us. as a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. we are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the 9 table of contents types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies are intended to protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and coverage limits. however, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us for all the costs we incur. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did. supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. during 2016, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition or weak demand restricts our ability to pass additional costs of materials and labor on to homebuyers. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs. increased demand for homes could require us to increase our corporate credit line, and our inability to do that could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. one of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. at november 30, 2016 , we had a $1.8 billion revolving credit facility with a group of banks (the "credit facility"), which includes a $298 million accordion feature, subject in part to additional commitments. if market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to increase our credit facility or obtain funds from other types of financings, that could prevent us from taking full advantage of the enhanced market opportunities. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. the agreement governing our credit facility (the "credit agreement") makes it a default if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with various covenants, including covenants regarding financial ratios. in addition, our lennar financial services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. further, rialto's 7.00% senior notes due 2018 contain restrictive covenants imposing operational 10 table of contents and financial restrictions on our rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit rialto's ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates or incur additional indebtedness. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could cause the amounts outstanding under our senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2016 , our consolidated debt, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $5.0 billion. the indentures governing our senior notes do not restrict our incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt, and the agreement governing our credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and homebuilding industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our earnings and cash flows; we may find it difficult to, or may be unable to, obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. our inability to obtain performance bonds could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance or obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. at november 30, 2016 , we had outstanding surety bonds of $1.4 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds including $223.4 million related to pending litigation. although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all development and construction activities are completed. our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and similar factors, the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. the ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. if we are unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our lennar financial services segment and rmf have warehouse facilities that mature between 2017 and 2018, and if we cannot renew or replace these facilities, we may have to reduce our mortgage lending and origination activities. our lennar financial services segment has an aggregate committed and uncommitted amount under three warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.3 billion as of november 30, 2016 , all of which will mature during 2017. our lennar financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf, the commercial mortgage lender in our rialto segment, has an aggregate committed amount under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.1 billion as of november 30, 2016 , all of which will mature between 2017 and 2018. rmf uses these facilities primarily to finance its mortgage origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our lennar financial services segment and rmf, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes. in our homebuilding and lennar multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to help us acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them. for example, in connection with our lennar multifamily 11 table of contents business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venture participants have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost over-runs. although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to cause joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions when such actions might be in our best interest. several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their borrowings. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the borrowings and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and the costs of that new capital. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes, of which we have $4.4 billion outstanding, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding rialto's 7.00% senior notes due 2018, as of november 30, 2016 . among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues. most purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. while the majority of our homebuyers obtain their mortgage financing from lennar financial services, others obtain mortgage financing from banks and other independent lenders. the uncertainties in the mortgage markets and increased government regulation could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for home purchases, thus preventing them from purchasing our homes. among other things, changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these are higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. in addition, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae and freddie mac, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. it is not clear how, if fannie mae and freddie mac were to curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. there is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyers' effective costs of the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. 12 table of contents our lennar financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes or by a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. approximately 55% of the mortgage loans made by our lennar financial services segment in 2016 were made to buyers of homes we built. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. in addition, the revenues of our lennar financial services segment would be adversely affected by a decrease in refinance transactions, if mortgage interest rates rise. if our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. we may be liable for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with sale of loans. while substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, we remain responsible for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with such sales. mortgage investors could seek to have us buy back mortgage loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgage loans that we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. in addition, when our rialto segment sells loans to securitization trusts or other purchasers, it gives limited industry standard representations and warranties about the loans, which, if incorrect, may require it to repurchase the loans, replace them with substitute loans or indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of breaches of representations and warranties. if we have significant liabilities with respect to such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly our financial condition. new mortgage products that we may offer may expose us to liability. through our lennar financial services segment, we offer non-qualified mortgage loan products which, unlike qualified mortgages, do not benefit from a presumption that when the loan is made the borrower has the ability to repay the loan. while we have taken substantial steps to try to mitigate exposure to bad credits and to insure that as to each loan we have made a reasonable determination that the borrower will have the ability to repay the loan, this type of product has increased risk and exposure to litigation and claims of borrowers. if we were to make a loan as to which we did not satisfy the regulatory standards for ascertaining the borrower's ability to repay the loan, the consequences could include giving the borrower a defense to repayment of the loan, which might prevent us from collecting interest and principal on that loan. if we have sold the loan or the servicing of the loan, failure to properly ascertain the borrower's ability to repay the loan may violate the representations and warranties we made in such a sale and impose upon us an obligation to repurchase the loan. if real estate rialto acquires through foreclosures is not properly valued when it is acquired, we could be required to take valuation charge-offs, which would reduce our earnings. when a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. the book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to its updated market value (or its updated market value less estimated selling costs if the foreclosed property is classified as held-for-sale), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. if the revised valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. material charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition. regulatory risks we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. we are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses. 13 table of contents we may be adversely impacted by laws and regulations directed at the financial industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the financial industry may have adverse effects on aspects of our businesses. for example, in october 2014, final rules were promulgated under the dodd-frank wall street reform act that require mortgage lenders or third-party b-piece buyers to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. we have determined that these rules do not affect our residential mortgage lending operations at this time; however, the new rules may adversely impact our rmf subsidiary's commercial mortgage lending operations. while it is still too early to know the full impact of the new rules on the market, we believe that the rules may reduce the price of commercial mortgage-backed securities ("cmbs") and limit the overall volume of cmbs related loan purchases, which could impact the financial results of our rmf business. in addition, if our residential mortgage lending operations became subject to these rules in the future, that would substantially increase the amount we would have to invest in our mortgage lending operations and increase our risks with regard to loans we originate and sell in the secondary mortgage market. governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers' costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. 14 table of contents we could be hurt by efforts to impose liabilities or obligations on persons with regard to labor law violations by other persons whose employees perform contracted services. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or the work rules they impose on their employees. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted for services. a recent national labor relations board ruling holds that for labor law purposes a firm could under some circumstances be responsible as a joint employer of its contractors' employees. if that ruling is upheld on appeal, it could make us responsible for collective bargaining obligations and labor law violations by our subcontractors. governmental rulings that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws. our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. the courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. the equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. for example, nevada has enacted a law providing that if the amount an assignee of a mortgage note paid to acquire the note is less than the face amount of the note, the assignee cannot recover more through a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. if the nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, it could materially and adversely affect our ability and the ability of funds we manage to profit from purchases of distressed debt. other risks our results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons. we establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, legal claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. however, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments. we have a substantial judgment against us in a contract suit, which we have bonded and are appealing as disclosed in item 3. legal proceedings. information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we rely extensively on information technology ("it") systems, including internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and software platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. our it systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and even the enhanced controls we have installed might be breached. if our it systems cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations. if our cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about purchasers of our homes or borrowers from our mortgage lending subsidiaries. this could damage our reputation, expose us to claims, and require us to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of our computer systems. 15 table of contents increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the homebuyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a homebuyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the homebuyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. expansion of our services and investments into international markets through our rialto segment subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. fund ii, of which our rialto segment owns an interest and for which it performs asset management services, owns an interest in a joint venture which holds real estate assets in spain. expansion of our services and investments in spain and any expansion into other international markets in the future, could result in operational problems not typically experienced in the united states. our activities outside the united states are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the implementation of currency controls, material changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, differences in the legal and regulatory systems, reputational risks and cultural differences which may lead to competitive disadvantages, particularly due to our need to comply with u.s. anti-corruption laws. there also are tax consequences of doing business outside the u.s., both under u.s. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business. we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. at november 30, 2016 , we had state tax net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards totaling $90.6 million that will expire between 2017 and 2035 . at november 30, 2016 , we had a valuation allowance of $5.8 million , primarily related to state nol carryforwards that are not more likely than not to be utilized due to an inability to carry back these losses in most states and short carryforward periods that exist in certain states. if we are unable to use our nols, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. the new trump administration may make substantial changes to fiscal and tax policies that may adversely affect our business. the trump administration has called for substantial change to fiscal and tax policies, which may include comprehensive tax reform. we cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business. however, it is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business. it is likely that some policies adopted by the new administration will benefit us and others will negatively affect us. until we know what changes are enacted, we will not know whether in total we benefit from, or are negatively affected by, the changes. we experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. as a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. 16 table of contents we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities, of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 42% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. that effectively gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to cause our stockholders to approve actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires. the trading price of our class b common stock normally is lower than that of our class a common stock. the only difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to ten votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, the trading price of the class b common stock on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") normally is substantially lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of class b common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our class b common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. the limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of even a relatively small number of shares of our class b common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the class b common stock. changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, or cause us to incur compliance expenses that we will be unable fully to recover, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to a number of market risks in the ordinary course of business. our primary market risk exposure relates to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and outstanding variable rate debt. for fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. for variable debt such as our unsecured revolving credit facility and lennar financial services' and rialto's warehouse repurchase facilities, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the outstanding borrowings on the debt facilities, but do affect our earnings and cash flows. in our lennar financial services operations, we utilize mortgage backed securities forward commitments, option contracts and investor commitments to protect the value of fixed rate-locked commitments and loans held-for-sale from fluctuations in mortgage-related interest rates. to mitigate interest risk associated with rialto's loans held-for-sale, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to risk from the time a borrower locks a loan until the time the loan is securitized. we hedge our interest rate exposure through entering into interest rate swap futures. we also manage a portion of our credit exposure by buying protection within the cmbx and cdx markets. we do not enter into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 63 table of contents the table below provides information at november 30, 2016 about our significant instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2016 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2016 . rialto's loans receivable, net, is comprised of nonaccrual and accrual loans. only the accrual loans are included in the table below, as we believe that since the nonaccrual loans were acquired having deteriorated credit quality, they are not sensitive to changes in interest rates. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2016 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total 2016 assets rialto: loans receivable, net: accrual loans: fixed rate $ 1.4 1.4 1.4 average interest rate 5.0 % 5.0 % variable rate $ 30.3 32.8 63.1 63.1 average interest rate 6.6 % 5.6 % 6.1 % investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 20.3 51.0 71.3 70.0 average interest rate 4.0 % 2.7 % 3.3 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 34.7 6.6 3.3 1.1 1.4 21.9 69.0 70.0 average interest rate 1.8 % 2.8 % 3.3 % 5.0 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 3.0 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.5 3.0 3.3 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % 3.8 % 3.8 % 3.8 % 3.8 % 3.8 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 435.0 682.6 1,380.0 3.8 508.2 1,525.0 4,534.6 4,626.4 average interest rate 11.5 % 5.4 % 4.4 % 3.9 % 4.8 % 4.8 % 5.4 % variable rate $ 43.3 12.6 3.1 0.6 11.1 70.7 72.6 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.7 % 3.8 % 2.6 % 2.6 % 3.3 % rialto: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 30.4 1.2 351.0 382.6 425.2 average interest rate 6.8 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 6.9 % variable rate $ 218.8 23.3 242.1 223.5 average interest rate 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 1,077.0 0.1 0.1 1,077.2 1,077.2 average interest rate 2.9 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 2.9 % 64 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could materially affect us and our businesses. market and economic risks the homebuilding recovery has continued its progression; however, a downturn or decline in economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. in fiscal 2017 , we continued to experience a steadily improving housing market, and we saw increases in new sales contracts signed and homes delivered compared with the prior year. however, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. the prior economic downturn severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. we cannot predict whether the recovery in the housing market will continue. if the recovery were 8 table of contents to slow or stop, or there were another economic downturn, the resulting decline in demand for new homes would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. during the prior economic downturn, we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option values. a future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs. inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. there are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or homesites we acquired at costs we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. this is particularly true when entitled land becomes increasingly scarce, as it has recently, and the cost of purchasing such land may be relatively high. also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. as a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for lower than anticipated profit margins or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. when demand for homes fell during the most recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. although we have reduced our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in our homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs beyond what we can recover through price increases. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in an inflationary environment, depending on homebuilding industry and other economic conditions, we may be unable to raise home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we currently are experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials above the general inflation rate. homebuilding, mortgage lending, real estate asset investing and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. homebuilding . the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. lennar financial services . our lennar financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions. mortgage lenders who have greater access to low cost funds, superior technologies or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. rialto . there are many firms and investment funds that compete with rialto in trying to acquire mortgage portfolios and other real estate related assets. at least some of the firms with which rialto competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have a cost of funds or targeted investment returns that are lower than those of rialto or the funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for rialto or the funds it manages. our rmf business competes with national and regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which it operates and with non-bank lenders, many of which are far larger than rmf or have access to lower cost funds than does rmf. lennar multifamily . our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators at locations across the u.s. where we have investments in rental properties. we also compete in securing partners, equity capital and debt financing, and we compete for tenants with the large supply of already existing or newly built rental apartments, as well as with sellers of homes. these competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. operational risks we may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us. 9 table of contents as a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. we are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies are intended to protect us against risk of loss from claims, subject to self-insured retentions, deductibles and coverage limits. however, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us against all the costs we incur. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we may not always be able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did. supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. during 2017, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition or weak demand restricts our ability to pass additional costs of materials and labor on to homebuyers. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs. increased demand for homes could require us to increase our corporate credit line, and our inability to do that could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities. our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. one of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. at november 30, 2017 , we had a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility with a group of banks (the "credit facility"), which includes a $403 million accordion feature, subject in part to additional commitments. if market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to increase our credit facility or obtain funds from other types of financings, that could prevent us from taking full advantage of the enhanced market opportunities. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. the agreement governing our credit facility (the "credit agreement") makes it a default if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with various covenants, including covenants regarding financial ratios. in addition, our lennar financial services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are 10 table of contents having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. further, rialto's 7.00% senior notes due 2018 (the "7.00% senior notes") contain restrictive covenants imposing operational and financial restrictions on our rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit rialto's ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates or incur additional indebtedness. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could cause the amounts outstanding under our senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness, which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2017 , our consolidated debt, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $6.9 billion. the indentures governing our senior notes do not restrict our incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt, and the agreement governing our credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. further, the expected acquisition of calatlantic will make us responsible for calatlantic debt, which was $3.8 billion as of september 30, 2017. our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and homebuilding industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our earnings and cash flows; we may find it difficult, or may be unable to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. our inability to obtain performance bonds could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance or obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. at november 30, 2017 , we had outstanding surety bonds of $1.3 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all development and construction activities are completed. our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and similar factors, the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. the ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. if we are unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our lennar financial services segment and rmf have warehouse facilities that mature between 2018 and 2019, and if we cannot renew or replace these facilities, we may have to reduce our mortgage lending and origination activities. our lennar financial services segment has committed and uncommitted amounts under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.5 billion as of november 30, 2017 , all of which will mature between december 2017 and december 2018. subsequent to november 30, 2017 , the warehouse repurchase credit facility due december 2017 was extended to december 2018. our lennar financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf, the commercial mortgage lender in our rialto segment, has committed amounts under five warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.2 billion as of november 30, 2017 , all of which will mature between december 2017 and november 2018. subsequent to november 30, 2017 , the warehouse credit facilities due december 2017 and january 2018 were extended to december 2019 and december 2018, respectively. rmf uses these facilities primarily to finance its mortgage origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our lennar financial services segment and rmf, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 11 table of contents we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes. in our homebuilding and lennar multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to help us acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, joint venture participants, including us, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them. for example, in connection with our lennar multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venture participants have guaranteed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost over-runs. although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to cause joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions when such actions might be in our best interest. several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their borrowings. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the borrowings and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and the costs of that new capital. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes, of which we have more than $6.0 billion outstanding, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding rialto's 7.00% senior notes, as of november 30, 2017 . further, the expected acquisition of calatlantic will make us responsible for calatlantic debt, which was $3.8 billion as of september 30, 2017. among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue. we will have to replace a substantial amount of debt in fiscal year 2018. we have a substantial amount of debt that matures in fiscal year 2018. we have $250 million of senior notes that mature in june 2018 and we will have to replace or renew a total of $2.6 billion of warehouse lines used by lennar financial services and rmf as they mature. in addition, assuming we complete the acquisition of calatlantic, based on balances as of september 30, 2017, calatlantic will have to offer to repurchase $258 million of convertible senior notes that otherwise will mature in 2019. calatlantic also has $575 million of senior notes and $223 million of convertible senior notes as of september 30, 2017 that mature in may 2018 (although the convertible senior notes are likely to be converted before they mature). additionally, we will have to replace a $750 million revolving credit facility currently maintained by calatlantic. we (including calatlantic) might have to raise as much as an additional $1.9 billion by december 2018 to replace the senior notes that will become due on or before that date. in january 2018, we commenced offers to exchange any and all of the outstanding $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes of calatlantic for up to the same aggregate principal amount of new notes issued by lennar. this includes the notes due in 2018. the new lennar notes will have the same maturities as the calatlantic notes for which they are exchanged, and therefore will not change the maturities of debt that will have to be repaid. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully 12 table of contents cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the third and fourth quarters of 2017, our homebuilding operation was disrupted due to impacts from hurricanes harvey and irma, which caused delays of 550 home deliveries that were pushed into fiscal 2018. if our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues. most purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. while the majority of our homebuyers obtain their mortgage financing from lennar financial services, others obtain mortgage financing from banks and other independent lenders. the uncertainties in the mortgage markets and increased government regulation could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for home purchases, thus preventing them from purchasing our homes. among other things, changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these are higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. in addition, there has been uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae and freddie mac, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. it is not clear how, if fannie mae and freddie mac were to curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. there is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyers' effective costs of paying for the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. our lennar financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes or by a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. approximately 61% of the mortgage loans made by our lennar financial services segment in 2017 were made to buyers of homes we built. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. in addition, the revenues of our lennar financial services segment would be adversely affected by a continued decrease in refinance transactions, if mortgage interest rates continue to rise. if our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. if we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of residential mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. we may be liable for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with sale of loans. while substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, we remain responsible for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with such sales. mortgage investors currently are seeking to have us buy back mortgage loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgage loans that we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. in addition, when our rialto segment sells loans to securitization trusts or other purchasers, it gives limited industry standard representations and warranties about the loans, which, if incorrect, may require it to repurchase the loans, replace them with substitute loans or indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of breaches of representations and warranties. if we have significant liabilities with respect to such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly our financial condition. if real estate rialto acquires through foreclosures is not properly valued when it is acquired, we could be required to take valuation charge-offs, which would reduce our earnings. when a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. the book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to its updated market value (or its updated market value less estimated selling costs if the foreclosed property is classified as held-for-sale), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. if the revised valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. material charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition. 13 table of contents regulatory risks we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. we are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses. we may be adversely impacted by laws and regulations directed at the financial industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the financial industry may have adverse effects on aspects of our businesses. for example, in october 2014, final rules were promulgated under the dodd-frank wall street reform act that require mortgage lenders or third-party b-piece buyers to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. we have determined that the rules do not affect our residential mortgage lending operations at this time; however, the rules may adversely impact our rmf subsidiary's commercial mortgage lending operations. the rules have been in effect for over a year; however, their long term impact is still undetermined. if, in the future, the rules cause a decrease the price of cmbs and/or a decrease in the overall volume of cmbs related loan purchases in the industry, this could negatively impact the financial results of our rmf business. in addition, if our residential mortgage lending operations became subject to these rules in the future, that would substantially increase the amount we would have to invest in our mortgage lending operations and increase our risks with regard to loans we originate and sell in the secondary mortgage market. governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject homebuilders like us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers' costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant. 14 table of contents we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. we could be hurt by efforts to impose liabilities or obligations on persons with regard to labor law violations by other persons whose employees perform contracted services. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or the work rules they impose on their employees. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted for services. a recent national labor relations board ruling held that for labor law purposes a firm could under some circumstances be responsible as a joint employer of its contractors' employees. that ruling has been withdrawn. if it had not been withdrawn and had been upheld on appeal, it could have made us responsible for collective bargaining obligations of, and labor law violations by our subcontractors. governmental rulings that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws. our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. the courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. the equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. for example, nevada has enacted a law providing that if the amount an assignee of a mortgage note paid to acquire the note is less than the face amount of the note, the assignee cannot recover more through a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. if the nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, it could materially and adversely affect our ability and the ability of funds we manage to profit from purchases of distressed debt. other risks our results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons. we establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, legal claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. however, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments. during fiscal 2017, we were required to make a significant payment, and make a significant charge against earnings, as a result of a litigation against us in a contract suit. 15 table of contents information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we rely extensively on information technology ("it") systems, including internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and software platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. our it systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and even the enhanced controls we have installed might be breached. if our it systems cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations. if our cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about purchasers of our homes or borrowers from our mortgage lending subsidiaries. this could damage our reputation, expose us to claims, and require us to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of our computer systems. increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the homebuyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a homebuyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the homebuyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our expected acquisition of calatlantic will substantially increase our supply of land that is suitable for residential development, but it will also substantially increase the rate at which we are building homes. expansion of our services and investments into international markets through our rialto segment subjects us to risks inherent in international operations. fund ii, of which our rialto segment owns an interest and for which it performs asset management services, owns an interest in a joint venture which holds real estate assets in spain. expansion of our services and investments in spain and any expansion into other international markets in the future, could result in operational problems not typically experienced in the united states. our activities outside the united states are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the implementation of currency controls, material changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, differences in the legal and regulatory systems, reputational risks and cultural differences which may lead to competitive disadvantages, particularly due to our need to comply with u.s. anti-corruption laws. there also are tax consequences of doing business outside the u.s., both under u.s. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business. we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. at november 30, 2017 , we had state tax nol carryforwards totaling $66.2 million that will expire between 2018 and 2036 . at november 30, 2017 , we had a valuation allowance of $6.4 million , primarily related to state nol carryforwards that are not more likely than not to be utilized due to an inability to carry back these losses in most states and short carryforward periods that exist in certain states. if we are unable to use our nols, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 table of contents there have been substantial changes to the internal revenue code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. on december 22, 2017, the president signed into law the tax cuts and jobs act, which contains substantial changes to the internal revenue code, effective january 1, 2018, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. among the possible changes that could make purchasing homes less attractive are (i) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct property taxes, (ii) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct mortgage interest, and (iii) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct state and local income taxes. although the rate at which we pay federal income tax will be reduced, this will require us to write down our deferred tax assets by approximately $70 million, which will negatively impact our results of operations in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. lastly, the new law eliminates the ability to carry back any future nols and only allows for carryforwards, the utilization of which is limited to 80% of taxable income in a given carryforward year. this could affect the timing of our ability to utilize net operating losses in the future. we experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. as a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart miller, our chief executive officer and a director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities, of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock that enables mr. miller to cast approximately 39.0% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. this percentage will be reduced to 33.1% by the issuance of shares in connection with the expected merger with calatlantic, but even that reduced percentage probably gives mr. miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to cause our stockholders to approve actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires. the trading price of our class b common stock normally is lower than that of our class a common stock. the only significant difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to ten votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, the trading price of the class b common stock on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") normally is substantially lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of class b common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our class b common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. the limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of even a relatively small number of shares of our class b common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the class b common stock. changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, or cause us to incur compliance expenses that we will be unable fully to recover, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. risks relating to the merger of calatlantic lennar has never done an acquisition as large as the expected merger with calatlantic although lennar has acquired a number of homebuilders through the years, and as recently as february 2017 it completed the acquisition of wci, a new york stock exchange listed homebuilder, lennar has never acquired a homebuilder, or any other type of company, as large as calatlantic. it is possible that techniques lennar has used in the past to integrate 17 table of contents operations of acquired companies and to realize cost savings and other operating and administrative benefits with regard to them, will not be as effective with regard to calatlantic as they were with regard to smaller companies. the merger is subject to closing conditions and may not be completed on a timely basis, or at all. failure to complete the combination could have a significant adverse effect on us. completion of the merger that will make calatlantic a wholly owned subsidiary of ours is subject to a number of conditions, including (i) the approval by our stockholders of the issuance of our class a and class b common stock as part of the merger consideration, and (ii) approval by the calatlantic stockholders of a proposal to adopt the merger agreement. this makes the timing of completion of the merger, or whether it will be completed at all, uncertain. either we or calatlantic can terminate the merger agreement if the merger is not consummated by may 31, 2018 (which can be extended under some circumstances to august 31, 2018). in addition, either the calatlantic board of directors or our board of directors can withdraw its recommendation that stockholders vote in favor of the merger if it determines that, because of an intervening event, failure to do so would be inconsistent with its fiduciary obligations, and calatlantic can in any event terminate the merger agreement in order to accept what its board determines to be a superior proposal that we do not at least match. if our board withdraws or negatively modifies its recommendation, calatlantic can terminate the merger agreement, in which case we would be required to pay calatlantic a termination fee of $178.7 million. in addition, if our stockholders fail to give the required stockholder approval or approvals, we will be required to reimburse calatlantic for its costs related to the merger up to $30 million. although we would be entitled to a $178.7 million termination fee if calatlantic's board withdraws or negatively modifies its recommendation or reimbursement of costs up to $30 million if calatlantic's stockholders fail to give the required stockholder approvals, our loss of anticipated benefits deriving from the merger is likely to be far greater than the termination fee or expense reimbursement we may receive. if the merger is not completed by august 31, 2018, we will be required to redeem $1.2 billion of senior notes we sold in november 2017. in november 2017, we sold a total of $1.2 billion of senior notes to raise funds with which, among other things, to pay the more than $1.16 billion that calatlantic stockholders will receive as merger consideration. if (x) consummation of the calatlantic merger does not occur on or before august 31, 2018, or (y) prior to august 31, 2018 we notify the trustee for the noteholders that we will not pursue consummation of the merger, we will be required to redeem all the outstanding senior notes for 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. we may not realize the expected benefits of the merger because of integration difficulties and other challenges. the success of the calatlantic merger will depend in large part on our successfully integrating its and our personnel, operations, strategies, technologies and other components of the two companies' businesses following the completion of the calatlantic merger. we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. in any event, we anticipate that the overall integration of calatlantic will be a time consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. any delay in completing the merger may reduce the benefits from the merger. the calatlantic merger is subject to a number of conditions that may prevent or delay its completion. a delay in completing the merger would delay the time when we would begin to realize the benefits of the synergies that we expect the merger to produce. the merger will significantly increase the ratio of our homebuilding debt to our total capital net of cash. we will incur or become subject to a substantial amount of additional debt as a result of the merger. we have sold $1.2 billion of debt securities primarily to finance the more than $1.16 billion we will pay to calatlantic stockholders who exercise (or are deemed to exercise) an option to elect to receive cash instead of our stock as a result of the merger. in addition, the surviving corporation, which will be our wholly owned subsidiary, will become subject to calatlantic's debt, which at september 30, 2017 totaled $3.8 billion. we estimate that the merger will increase the ratio of our consolidated homebuilding debt to total capital, net of cash, from its november 30, 2017 level of 34.4% to a pro forma level of 45.5%. we anticipate being able to reduce the ratio to its pre-merger level by the end of fiscal 2019. however, to the extent cash flows of the combined companies are less than anticipated, we may not be able to reduce the ratio of our consolidated homebuilding debt to total capital, net of cash, to its pre-merger level until well after the end of fiscal 2019, if we are ever able to do that. the merger will add a substantial amount of goodwill to our balance sheet. since the price we will be deemed to have paid for the net assets of calatlantic for accounting purposes will depend on the value of our class a and class b common stock when the merger takes place, and neither those stock prices nor the value of the calatlantic assets we will acquire in the calatlantic merger will be known until the merger takes place, we will 18 table of contents not know until after the merger takes place the amount by which for accounting purposes we are deemed to pay will exceed the net value of the assets we receive and the liabilities our subsidiary assumes in the merger (i.e., the portion of the deemed purchase price that will be treated as goodwill). however, we estimate that if the value of our class a common stock at the time of the merger is $62.36 per share and the value of our class b common stock at the time of the merger is $49.47 per share, the respective closing prices of those shares on december 18, 2017, the merger would result in our adding approximately $3.4 billion to the goodwill carried on our balance sheet. if it is determined in the future that the profits generated by the assets acquired in the merger are not sufficient to justify that goodwill, we will have to write off some or all of it, and to charge the amount written off against our earnings. the amount of the merger consideration we agreed to pay was influenced by our assumption that we will be able to achieve significant cost savings as a result of the merger. our willingness to agree to the equity consideration and cash consideration reflected in the merger agreement was based in substantial part on an analysis by our management which concluded, among other things, that we would be able to accomplish substantial annual savings in selling, general and administrative costs and in operating costs following the calatlantic merger. although our management was previously able to achieve its anticipated cost savings with regard to homebuilding activities of wci, which we acquired in february 2017, calatlantic is much larger than wci or any other company we have ever acquired. if we are not able to accomplish significant cost savings with regard to development of the calatlantic properties, and with regard to some of the properties or companies we already own, we may not be able to generate sufficient merger-related profits to justify the cost of the merger to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to a number of market risks in the ordinary course of business. our primary market risk exposure relates to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and outstanding variable rate debt. for fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. for variable rate debt such as our unsecured revolving credit facility and lennar financial services' and rialto's warehouse repurchase facilities, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the outstanding borrowings on the debt facilities, but do affect our earnings and cash flows. in our lennar financial services operations, we utilize mortgage backed securities forward commitments, option contracts and investor commitments to protect the value of rate-locked commitments and loans held-for-sale from fluctuations in mortgage-related interest rates. to mitigate interest risk associated with rialto's loans held-for-sale, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to risk from the time a borrower locks a loan until the time the loan is securitized. we hedge our interest rate exposure through entering into interest rate swap futures. we also manage a portion of our credit exposure by buying protection within the cmbx and cdx markets. we do not enter into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 65 table of contents the table below provides information at november 30, 2017 about our significant instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2017 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2017 . see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2017 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total 2017 assets rialto: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 19.5 160.1 179.6 199.2 average interest rate 4.0 % 2.7 % 3.4 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 32.9 19.7 8.8 2.2 1.4 28.5 93.5 91.1 average interest rate 2.5 % 2.3 % 2.3 % 5.2 % 4.8 % 4.3 % 3.1 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.5 3.0 2.9 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 357.6 1,477.9 345.8 523.0 1,192.3 2,511.4 6,408.0 6,593.9 average interest rate 5.7 % 4.4 % 2.7 % 4.6 % 4.4 % 4.7 % 4.5 % variable rate $ 4.1 25.3 11.1 40.5 43.4 average interest rate 4.9 % 4.4 % 3.4 % 4.1 % rialto: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 1.7 350.0 1.1 11.4 86.9 451.1 462.4 average interest rate 6.2 % 6.2 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 5.3 % variable rate $ 182.2 182.2 182.2 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 937.3 0.1 937.4 937.4 average interest rate 3.6 % 4.0 % 3.6 % 66 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could materially affect us and our businesses. market and economic risks a downturn in the homebuilding market could adversely affect our operations. in the first half of fiscal 2018 , we continued to experience an improving housing market, and we saw increases in new sales contracts signed and homes delivered compared with the prior year. however, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. during the second half of fiscal 2018, demand for new homes slowed as a result of higher prices and higher interest rates. we believe the reduced demand is temporary, but that may not be the case. the economic downturn in 2007-2010 severely affected both the number of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. a continuation of the recent reduced demand for new homes could have a similar effect on us. we and other homebuilders have been experiencing significant cost increases. during fiscal 2018, we encountered significant increases in the costs of labor and materials. the increased labor costs were primarily the result of shortages of skilled labor in many parts of the country. the increase in material costs were due to inflationary pressures and, during the middle part of the year, to tariffs on canadian lumber and other imported building materials. inability to pass on all the increased costs to homebuyers puts downward pressure on our operating margins in the later months of 2018 and could continue to affect our operating margins in 2019. 8 table of contents an increase in mortgage interest rates could decrease our buyers' ability or desire to obtain financing and adversely affect our business or financial results. mortgage rates are currently low as compared to most historical periods; however, they increased during the past year as the federal reserve board raised its benchmark rate several times, and they appear likely to increase further in 2019. when interest rates increase, the cost of owning a new home increases, which usually reduces the number of potential buyers who can afford to purchase a home. the cost of mortgage financing could result in a decline in the demand for our homes. during the prior economic downturn, we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option values. a future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs. inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. there are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or homesites we acquired at costs we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. this is particularly true when entitled land becomes scarce, as it has recently, and the cost of purchasing such land is relatively high. also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. as a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for lower than anticipated profit margins or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. when demand for homes fell during the 2007-2010 recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. although we have reduced our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in our homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. homebuilding, mortgage lending and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. homebuilding . the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. lennar financial services . our lennar financial services residential and commercial lending businesses compete with other residential and commercial mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions. mortgage lenders who have greater access to low cost funds, superior technologies or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. lennar multifamily . our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators at locations across the u.s. where we have investments in rental properties. we also compete in securing partners, equity capital and debt financing, and we compete for tenants with the large supply of already existing or newly built rental apartments, as well as with sellers of homes. these competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. operational risks we may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us. as a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. we are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies are intended to protect us against risk of loss from claims, subject to self-insured retentions, deductibles and coverage limits. however, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in 9 table of contents many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us against all the costs we incur. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we may not always be able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did. supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. during 2018 , we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. increases in construction costs that exceeded our increase in home pricing eroded our operating margins in the latter part of fiscal 2018 and may continue to reduce our operating margins, particularly if pricing competition or weak demand restricts our ability to pass additional costs of materials and labor on to homebuyers. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, and taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs. increased interest rates will increase the cost of the homes we build. our business requires us to finance much of the cost of developing our residential communities. one of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. at november 30, 2018 , we had a $2.6 billion revolving credit facility with a group of banks (the "credit facility"), which includes a $315 million accordion feature, subject to additional commitments. the interest on borrowings under the credit facility is at rates based on prevailing short term rates from time to time. due in part to federal reserve bank actions, short term interest rates increased during fiscal 2018 and are likely to increase during fiscal 2019. this increases the cost of the homes we build, which either makes those homes more expensive for homebuyers, which is likely to reduce demand, or lowers our operating margins, or both. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. the agreement governing our credit facility (the "credit agreement") makes it a default if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with various covenants, including covenants regarding financial ratios. in addition, our lennar financial services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its residential lending activities and our rmf commercial lending group has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could cause the amounts outstanding under our senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness, which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2018 , our consolidated debt, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $8.7 billion. the indentures governing our senior notes do not restrict our incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt, and the agreement governing our credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. among other things, we incurred a substantial amount of debt in connection with our acquisition of calatlantic during 10 table of contents 2018. we substantially reduced our outstanding indebtedness during the remainder of 2018, but we still have a significant amount of indebtedness. our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and homebuilding industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our earnings and cash flows; we may find it difficult, or may be unable, to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. our inability to obtain performance bonds or post letters of credit could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance or obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. at november 30, 2018 , we had outstanding surety bonds of $2.7 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all development and construction activities are completed. our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and similar factors, the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. our ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. if we are unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. our lennar financial services segment, including rmf, has warehouse facilities that mature in fiscal year 2019, and if we could not renew or replace these facilities, we probably would have to reduce our mortgage lending and origination activities. our lennar financial services segment, excluding rmf, has committed and uncommitted amounts under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.9 billion as of november 30, 2018 , all of which will mature at various dates through fiscal 2019. subsequent to november 30, 2018 , the warehouse repurchase credit facility due in december 2018 was extended to february 2019. our lennar financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its residential mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf, our commercial mortgage lending subsidiary which on december 1, 2018, was moved into our lennar financial services segment, has committed amounts under five warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $900 million as of november 30, 2018 , all of which will mature between november 2019 and december 2019. rmf uses these facilities primarily to finance its commercial mortgage loan origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our lennar financial services segment, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes. in our homebuilding and lennar multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to help us acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, joint venture participants, including us, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them. for example, in connection with our lennar multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venture participants have guaranteed obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost over-runs. although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to cause joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions when such actions might be in our best interest. 11 table of contents several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their borrowings. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the borrowings and to finance the activities for which they were incurred, which could adversely affect our financial position. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with us for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and the costs of that new capital. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes, of which we have approximately $8.0 billion outstanding, net of debt issuance costs as of november 30, 2018 . among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue. we will have to replace or repay a substantial amount of debt in fiscal year 2019. we have a substantial amount of debt that matures in fiscal year 2019. we have $1.1 billion of senior notes that mature in fiscal year 2019 and we will have to replace or renew a total of $2.1 billion of warehouse lines used by lennar financial services, including rmf as they mature. if we cannot replace or renew this debt when we need it, our operations could be adversely affected. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the third and fourth quarters of 2017, our homebuilding operation was disrupted due to impacts from hurricanes harvey and irma, which caused delays of 550 home deliveries that were pushed into fiscal 2018. in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, our homebuilding operations in the houston area were affected by heavy rain that caused flooding. if our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues. most purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. while the majority of our homebuyers obtain their mortgage financing from lennar financial services, others obtain mortgage financing from banks and other independent lenders. the uncertainties in the mortgage markets and increased government regulation could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for home purchases, making it difficult for them to purchase our homes. among other things, changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac and fha/va to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these are higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. in addition, there has been uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae and freddie mac, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. it is not clear how, if fannie mae and freddie mac were to curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. there is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyers' effective costs of paying for the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. 12 table of contents our lennar financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes or by a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. approximately 76% of the residential mortgage loans made by our lennar financial services segment in 2018 were made to buyers of homes we built and we anticipate that the percentage will increase in fiscal 2019. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. in addition, the revenues of our lennar financial services segment would be adversely affected by a continued decrease in refinance transactions, if mortgage interest rates continue to rise. if our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. if we became unable to sell residential mortgage loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of residential mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. we may be liable for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with sale of loans. while substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, we remain responsible for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with such sales. mortgage investors sometimes seek to have us buy back mortgage loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgage loans that we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. in addition, when rmf sells loans to securitization trusts or other purchasers, it gives limited industry standard representations and warranties about the loans, which, if incorrect, may require it to repurchase the loans, replace them with substitute loans or indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of breaches of representations and warranties. if we have significant liabilities with respect to such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly our financial condition. we have a substantial investment in funds managed by rialto capital management. in november 2018, we sold rialto capital management and other subsidiaries that are involved in advising funds and investment vehicles that invest in real estate related assets. however, we retained investments in those funds and other investment vehicles totaling almost $297.4 million, and we have commitments to invest another $71.6 million. when we made those investments and commitments, rialto capital management was a wholly owned subsidiary, which, among other things, enabled us to participate in decisions regarding senior management personnel. subsequent to the sale, we no longer have any more influence than other large investors over decisions regarding senior management of rialto capital management. regulatory risks we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. we are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses. we may be adversely impacted by laws and regulations directed at the financial industry. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the financial industry may have adverse effects on aspects of our businesses. for example, in october 2014, final rules were promulgated under the dodd-frank wall street reform act that require mortgage lenders or third-party b-piece buyers to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. we have determined that the rules do not affect our residential mortgage lending operations at this time; however, the rules may adversely impact our rmf subsidiary's commercial mortgage lending operations. the rules have been in effect for several years; however, their long term impact is still undetermined. if, in the future, the rules cause a decrease in the price of cmbs and/or a decrease in the overall volume of cmbs related loan purchases in the industry, this could negatively impact the financial results of our rmf business. in addition, if our residential mortgage lending operations became subject to these rules in the future, that would substantially increase the amount we would have to invest in our mortgage lending operations and increase our risks with regard to loans we originate and sell in the secondary mortgage market. 13 table of contents governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject homebuilders like us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers' costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. we could be hurt by efforts to impose liabilities or obligations on persons with regard to labor law violations by other persons whose employees perform contracted services. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or the work rules they impose on their employees. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work-related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted for services. in 2015 the national labor relations board ("nlrb") issued a decision that made it possible that someone like us, who uses subcontractors, could be viewed as a joint employer of the subcontractors' employees. a subsequent nlrb decision (which was withdrawn for procedural reasons) and an appellate court decision questioned aspects of the 2015 decision and the nlrb has issued a proposed rule that, if adopted, would make it much less likely that we could be deemed to be a joint employer of our subcontractors' employees. while the future of joint employer liability remains uncertain, if we were deemed to be a joint employer of our subcontractors' 14 table of contents employees, we could become responsible for collective bargaining obligations of, and labor law violations by, our subcontractors. governmental rulings that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. other risks our results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons. we establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, legal claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. however, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments. information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we rely extensively on information technology ("it") systems, including internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and software platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. our it systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. we have installed and continually upgrade an array of protections against cyber intrusions. the risk of cyber intrusion is one of the areas of risk as to which there are regular periodic presentations to our board. however, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and it is possible that the controls we have installed could at some time be breached in a material respect. if we were to be subject to a material successful cyber intrusion, that could result in remediation costs, increased cyber protection costs, lost revenues or loss of customers, litigation or regulatory actions by governmental authorities, increased insurance premiums, reputational damage and damage to our competitiveness, our stock price and our long-term stockholder value. we have in recent years done two acquisitions of publicly traded companies. while each of those companies had its own protections against cyber intrusions, when we acquire a company there is a period of increased vulnerability as we integrate the acquired company into our information technology systems. failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us. in connection with our business we collect and retain personally identifiable information (e.g., information of our customers, suppliers and employees), and there is an expectation that we will adequately protect that information. the u.s. regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of the personally identifiable information we maintain, or of our data, by cyber-crime or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we usually have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the homebuyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a homebuyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the homebuyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success to a substantial extent depends on our ability to acquire land that is suitable for residential homebuilding and meets our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 15 table of contents international activities subject us to risks inherent in international operations. we own an interest in a joint venture that is building a condominium development in spain. also, we sell a significant number of homes in the united states to people who are not residents of the united states, and some large investors in our multifamily development ventures are located outside the united states. dealings with people or institutions located outside the united states create risks related to currencies and to political affairs in various countries. we must also be careful to comply with u.s. anti-corruption laws. also, we have to be aware of tax issues involved in doing business outside the united states or with people who are not residents of the united states, both under u.s. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business. we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("nol") carryforwards. at november 30, 2018 , we had state tax nol carryforwards totaling $93.3 million that will expire between 2019 and 2037 and federal tax effected nol carryforwards totaling $44.8 million that begin to expire in 2029. at november 30, 2018 , we had a valuation allowance of $7.2 million , primarily related to state nol carryforwards that are not more likely than not to be utilized due to an inability to carry back these losses in most states and short carryforward periods that exist in certain states. if the nols we are not able to use exceed the valuation allowance, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations. there have been substantial changes to the internal revenue code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. on december 22, 2017, the president signed into law the tax cuts and jobs act, which contains substantial changes to the internal revenue code, effective january 1, 2018, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. among the possible changes that could make purchasing homes less attractive are (i) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct property taxes, (ii) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct mortgage interest, and (iii) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct state and local income taxes. in addition, the new law eliminates the ability to carry back any future nols and only allows for carryforwards, the utilization of which is limited to 80% of taxable income in a given carryforward year. this could affect the timing of our ability to utilize net operating losses in the future. we experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. as a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart miller, our executive chairman and a director, through family and personal holdings of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock, has the power to cast approximately 33% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. this gives mr. miller substantial influence regarding the election of our directors and the approval of most other matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller could be able to cause our stockholders to approve actions that are contrary to many of our other stockholders' desires. the trading price of our class b common stock normally is lower than that of our class a common stock. the only significant difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to ten votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, the trading price of the class b common stock on the nyse normally is lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of class b common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our class b common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. the limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of even a relatively small number of shares of our class b common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the class b common stock. 16 table of contents changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs. we have tried to reduce the effect of the homes we build on the climate by installing solar power systems and other energy saving devices on many of those homes. nonetheless, governmental requirements directed at reducing effects on climate could cause us to incur expenses that we cannot recover or that will require us to increase the price of homes we sell to the point that it affects demand for those homes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to a number of market risks in the ordinary course of business. our primary market risk exposure relates to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and outstanding variable rate debt. for fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. for variable rate debt such as our unsecured revolving credit facility and lennar financial services' and rmf's warehouse repurchase facilities, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the outstanding borrowings on the debt facilities, but do affect our earnings and cash flows. 63 table of contents in our lennar financial services operations, we utilize mortgage backed securities forward commitments, option contracts and investor commitments to protect the value of rate-locked commitments and loans held-for-sale from fluctuations in mortgage-related interest rates. to mitigate interest risk associated with rmf's loans held-for-sale, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to risk from the time a borrower locks a loan until the time the loan is securitized. we hedge our interest rate exposure through entering into interest rate swap futures. we also manage a portion of our credit exposure by buying protection within the cmbx and cdx markets. we do not enter into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. the table below provides information at november 30, 2018 about our significant instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2018 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2018 . see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2018 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total 2018 assets rialto: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 18.5 178.5 197.0 222.8 average interest rate 4.0 % 2.7 % 3.3 % lennar financial services: loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 45.0 13.0 5.5 2.4 1.8 49.8 117.5 111.5 average interest rate 2.8 % 3.1 % 4.3 % 4.7 % 4.3 % 4.1 % 3.5 % variable rate $ 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 4.3 5.2 4.6 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % liabilities lennar homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 1,270.5 714.1 962.7 1,745.1 64.4 3,674.8 8,431.6 8,299.1 average interest rate 4.3 % 4.2 % 6.2 % 4.9 % 5.2 % 4.9 % 4.9 % variable rate $ 24.9 10.7 35.6 37.1 average interest rate 5.3 % 4.4 % 5.0 % rialto: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 1.9 1.1 15.6 115.7 134.3 135.0 average interest rate 3.2 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.3 % variable rate $ 191.4 191.4 191.4 average interest rate 4.6 % 4.6 % lennar financial services: notes and other debts payable: variable rate $ 1,256.2 1,256.2 1,256.2 average interest rate 4.5 % 4.5 % 64 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. the following are what we believe to be the principal risks that could materially affect us and our businesses. market and economic risks a downturn in the homebuilding market could adversely affect our operations. in fiscal 2019 , we continued to experience an improving housing market, and we saw increases in new sales contracts signed and homes delivered compared with the prior year. however, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. the economic downturn in 2007-2010 severely affected both the number of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. it also required us to write down the carrying value of our land inventory. it is likely that if there were another economic downturn, the resulting decline in demand for new homes would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to continue to manage our costs. during fiscal 2019, although we encountered increases in the costs of labor and materials, our direct costs as a percentage of our average sales prices trended downward each quarter. while we expect this trend to continue in 2020, we may not be able to lower our direct construction cost as a percentage of average sales price. we continue to operate in a labor constrained market and we cannot predict future inflationary pressures and tariffs on imported building materials. our inability to pass on future increased costs to homebuyers would put downward pressure on our operating margins in 2020. 8 table of contents an increase in mortgage interest rates could reduce our buyers' ability or desire to obtain financing and adversely affect our business or financial results. mortgage rates are very low as compared to most historical periods. however, they could increase in the future, particularly if the federal reserve board raises its benchmark rate. when interest rates increase, the cost of owning a new home increases, which usually reduces the number of potential buyers who can afford, or are willing, to purchase homes we build. during the prior economic downturn, we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option values. a future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs. we are constantly purchasing land, or entering into arrangements to purchase land, for use in our homebuilding operations. the value of land suitable for residential development fluctuates depending on local and national market conditions and other factors that affect demand for new homes. when demand for homes fell during the 2007-2010 recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, which required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. although we have reduced our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in our homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write-downs of the carrying value of our inventory and costs relating to land purchase options. operational risks homebuilding, mortgage lending and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results. homebuilding . the homebuilding industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. we also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. these competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. financial services . our financial services residential and commercial lending businesses compete with other residential and commercial mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions. mortgage lenders who have greater access to low cost funds, superior technologies or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can. multifamily . our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators at locations across the u.s. where we have investments in rental properties. we also compete in securing partners, equity capital and debt financing, and we compete for tenants with the large supply of already existing or newly built rental apartments, as well as with sellers of homes. these competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. we may be subject to costs of warranty and liability claims in excess of the insurance coverage we can purchase. as a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. we are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. we have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers' compensation and other business insurance. these insurance policies are intended to protect us against risk of loss from claims, subject to self-insured retentions, deductibles and coverage limits. however, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. as a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us against all the costs we incur. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. 9 table of contents we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. however, we may not always be able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did. supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. during 2019 , we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. increases in construction costs sometimes exceed our ability to increase home prices, particularly in areas where there is aggressive pricing competition or weak demand. this reduces our operating margins and our net income. reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs. we incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, and taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. if the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs. increased interest rates will increase the cost of the homes we build. our business requires us to finance much of the cost of developing our residential communities. one of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. at november 30, 2019 , we had a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility with a group of banks (the "credit facility"). it has a $350 million accordion feature, subject to additional commitments, thus the maximum borrowings could be $2.8 billion. the interest on borrowings under the credit facility is at rates based on prevailing short term rates from time to time. if interest rates increase, this increases the cost of the homes we build, which either makes those homes more expensive for homebuyers, which is likely to reduce demand, or lower our operating margins, or both. failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. the agreement governing our credit facility (the "credit agreement") makes it a default if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with various covenants, including covenants regarding financial ratios. in addition, our financial services residential mortgage companies have warehouse facilities to finance their mortgage lending activities and our rmf commercial lending group has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. this could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. in addition, if we default under the credit agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could cause the amounts outstanding under our senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would seriously adversely impact our consolidated financial condition. we have a substantial level of indebtedness, which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities. as of november 30, 2019 , our consolidated debt, net of debt issuance costs, and excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $7.8 billion. the indentures governing our senior notes do not restrict our incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt, and the agreement governing our credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. we reduced our outstanding indebtedness during fiscal 2019, but we still have a significant amount of indebtedness. our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including: we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and homebuilding industry conditions; we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our earnings and cash flows; we may find it difficult, or may be unable, to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests; we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments and reducing the amount we can return to our stockholders; 10 table of contents we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. our inability to obtain performance bonds or post letters of credit could adversely affect our operations. we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance of obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. at november 30, 2019 , we had outstanding surety bonds of $2.9 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all development and construction activities to which they relate are completed. our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and similar factors, the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. our ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. if we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our operations could be adversely affected. our financial services segment, including rmf , has warehouse facilities that mature in fiscal year 2020, and if we could not renew or replace these facilities, we probably would have to reduce our mortgage lending and origination activities. our financial services segment's residential mortgage origination subsidiaries have committed and uncommitted amounts under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $1.8 billion as of november 30, 2019 , all of which will mature at various dates through fiscal 2020. our financial services segment uses these facilities to finance its residential mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. in addition, rmf , our commercial mortgage lending subsidiary, which is included in our financial services segment, has committed amounts under five warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $900 million as of november 30, 2019 , all of which will mature within a year after that date. rmf uses these facilities primarily to finance its commercial mortgage loan origination activities. we expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. if we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes. in our homebuilding and multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to help us acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. in certain circumstances, joint venture participants, including us, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. if a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them. for example, in connection with our multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venture participants have guaranteed obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost over-runs. although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. in addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to cause joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions when such actions might be in our best interest. several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their borrowings. if any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the borrowings and to finance the activities for which they were incurred, which could adversely impact our financial position. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with us for 20 or more years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 table of contents our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings. our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and the costs of that new capital. a substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes, of which we have approximately $6.9 billion outstanding, net of debt issuance costs as of november 30, 2019 . among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue. we will have to replace or repay a substantial amount of debt in fiscal year 2020. we have $600 million of senior notes that mature in fiscal year 2020 and we will have to replace or renew a total of $2.7 billion of warehouse lines used by financial services, including rmf , as they mature. if we cannot replace or renew this debt when we need it, our operations could be adversely affected. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations. many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, our homebuilding operation was disrupted due to impacts from hurricanes, which slowed home production and delayed home sales. if our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues. most purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. while the majority of our homebuyers obtain their mortgage financing from financial services, others obtain mortgage financing from banks and other independent lenders. the uncertainties in the mortgage markets and increased government regulation could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for home purchases, making it difficult for them to purchase our homes. among other things, changes made by fannie mae, freddie mac, ginnie mae and fha/va to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. principal among these are higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. in addition, there has been uncertainty regarding the future of fannie mae, freddie mac and ginnie mae, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. it is not clear how, if fannie mae, freddie mac and ginnie mae were to curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. there is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyers' effective costs of paying for the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. our financial services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes. approximately 95% of the residential mortgage loans made by our financial services segment in 2019 were made to buyers of homes we built. therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this aspect of our business. if our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. if we became unable to sell residential mortgage loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae, freddie mac and ginnie mae, we would have to either curtail our origination of residential mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. we may be liable for certain limited representations and warranties we make in connection with sale of loans. while substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, we remain responsible for certain industry standard limited 12 table of contents representations and warranties we make in connection with such sales. mortgage investors sometimes seek to have us buy back mortgage loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgage loans that we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties. in addition, when rmf sells loans to securitization trusts or other purchasers, it gives limited industry standard representations and warranties about the loans, which, if incorrect, may require it to repurchase the loans, replace them with substitute loans or indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of breaches of representations and warranties. if we have significant liabilities with respect to such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly our financial condition. regulatory risks changes in u.s. trade policies and retaliatory responses from other countries may substantially increase the costs or limit supplies of building materials and products used in our homes. during the past year, the u.s. government has imposed new, or increased existing, tariffs on an array of imported materials and products that are used in the homes we build, including lumber, steel, aluminum, solar panels and washing machines, which increases the costs of those items, and it has threatened additional new or increased tariffs. the tariffs that have been imposed or increased have impacted our construction costs and caused disruptions in our supply chains, and new or increased tariffs could result in further cost increases. these cost increases could negatively impact our profit margins. the new or increased tariffs could also negatively affect u.s. national or regional economies, which could affect the demand for the homes we build. we may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. we are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses. governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results. we are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect land development, homebuilding and apartment development processes, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. these regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions that must be met prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. we are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. in addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction. we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. in some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. we generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. these permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. in addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject homebuilders like us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. in addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. the impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers' costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers' access to some types of loans. our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to 13 table of contents obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we encounter. government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control. although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. we could be held responsible for obligations of, and labor law violations by, our subcontractors and other contract parties. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or the work rules they impose on their employees. however, various governmental agencies have sought, and in the future may seek, to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws, workers' compensation and other work-related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted for services. while the future of joint employer liability remains uncertain, if we were deemed to be a joint employer of our subcontractors' employees, we could become responsible for collective bargaining obligations of, and labor law violations by, our subcontractors. governmental rulings that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. other risks we have substantial investments in real estate related businesses in which we are a minority investor. we have investments in funds and other investment vehicles managed by rialto capital management, a company we sold in november 2018, investments in a number of companies that are applying technology to various aspects of building and marketing homes and real estate related aspects of the financial services industry, and investments in fivepoint, a publicly traded company that has ownership interests in, and is managing the development of, three large multi-use master planned communities in california. as a minority investor, we have limited influence over decisions made with regard to these funds and businesses. however, we could suffer significant losses of our investments as a result of decisions that are made by the funds and businesses. our results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons. we establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, legal claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. however, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments. information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. we rely extensively on information technology ("it") systems, including internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and software platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. our it systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of disruptions, including, but not limited to, those caused by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subject to possibility of computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. we have installed and continually upgrade an array of protections against cyber intrusions. the risk of cyber intrusion is one of the areas of risk as to which there are regular periodic presentations to our board. however, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and it is possible that the controls we have installed could at some time be breached in a material respect. if we were to be subject to a material successful cyber intrusion, that could result in remediation costs, increased cyber protection costs, lost revenues or loss of customers, litigation or regulatory actions by governmental authorities, increased insurance premiums, reputational damage and damage to our competitiveness, our stock price and our long-term stockholder value. 14 table of contents failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us. in connection with our business we collect and retain personally identifiable information (e.g., information regarding our customers, suppliers and employees), and there is an expectation that we will adequately protect that information. the u.s. regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of the personally identifiable information we maintain, or of our data, by cyber-crime or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. we usually have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the homebuyer does not complete the purchase. in some cases, however, a homebuyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the homebuyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, their inability to sell their current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. if there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our success to a substantial extent depends on our ability to acquire land that is suitable for residential homebuilding and meets our land investment criteria. there is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. the future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. international activities subject us to risks inherent in international operations. we sell a significant number of homes in communities in the united states to people who are not residents of the united states, and some large investors in our multifamily development ventures are located outside the united states. dealings with people or institutions located outside the united states create risks related to currencies and to political affairs in various countries. we must also be careful to comply with u.s. anti-corruption laws. also, we have to be aware of tax issues involved in doing business outside the united states or with people who are not residents of the united states, both under u.s. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business. there have been substantial changes to the internal revenue code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. the tax cuts and jobs act, which became effective january 1, 2018, contains substantial changes to the internal revenue code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. among the possible changes that could make purchasing homes less attractive are (i) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct property taxes, (ii) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct mortgage interest, and (iii) limitations on the ability of our homebuyers to deduct state and local income taxes. we experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis. our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems. we have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders. stuart miller, our executive chairman and a director, through family and personal holdings of class b, and to a lesser extent class a, common stock, has the power to cast approximately 34% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding class a and class b common stock combined. this gives mr. miller substantial influence regarding the election of our directors and the approval of most other matters that are presented to our stockholders. mr. miller's voting power might discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. also, because of his voting power, mr. miller may be able to cause our stockholders to approve actions that are contrary to many of our other stockholders' desires. 15 table of contents the trading price of our class b common stock has been substantially lower than that of our class a common stock. the only significant difference between our class a common stock and our class b common stock is that the class b common stock entitles the holders to ten votes per share, while the class a common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. however, for many years, the trading price of the class b common stock on the nyse has been substantially lower than the nyse trading price of our class a common stock. we believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of class b common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our class b common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. the limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of even a relatively small number of shares of our class b common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the class b common stock. we could suffer significant losses with regard to our investments in technology companies. in connection with our effort to use new technology to reduce selling costs and improve the experience of our homebuyers, we have made substantial investments in companies that are developing new technology that we are using. in many instances those companies have not yet achieved profitability or their ability to survive market downturns has not yet been tested. while we think at least most of the investments we have made will prove to be profitable, it is possible that will not be the case, and that we at some time will have to write down significant portions of our investments in technology companies. changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. there is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs. we have tried to reduce the effect of the homes we build on the climate by installing solar power systems and other energy saving devices in many of those homes. nonetheless, governmental requirements directed at reducing effects on climate could cause us to incur expenses that we cannot recover or that will require us to increase the price of homes we sell to the point that it affects demand for those homes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to a number of market risks in the ordinary course of business. our primary market risk exposure relates to fluctuations in interest rates on our investments, loans held-for-sale, loans held-for-investment and outstanding variable rate debt. for fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. for variable rate debt such as our unsecured revolving credit facility and financial services' and rmf 's warehouse repurchase facilities, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the outstanding borrowings on the debt facilities, but do affect our earnings and cash flows. in our financial services operations, we utilize mortgage backed securities forward commitments, option contracts and investor commitments to protect the value of rate-locked commitments and loans held-for-sale from fluctuations in mortgage-related interest rates. to mitigate interest risk associated with rmf 's loans held-for-sale, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to risk from the time a borrower locks a loan until the time the loan is securitized. we hedge our interest rate exposure through entering into interest rate swap futures. we also manage a portion of our credit exposure by buying protection within the cmbx and cdx markets. we do not enter into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 54 table of contents the table below provides information at november 30, 2019 about our significant instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity, senior notes and other debts payable and notes and other debts payable, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average effective interest rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair values at november 30, 2019 . weighted average variable interest rates are based on the variable interest rates at november 30, 2019 . see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and notes 1 and 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a further discussion of these items and our strategy of mitigating our interest rate risk. information regarding interest rate sensitivity principal (notional) amount by expected maturity and average interest rate november 30, 2019 years ending november 30, fair value at november 30, (dollars in millions) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total 2019 assets lennar other: investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 54.1 54.1 56.4 average interest rate 2.8 % 2.8 % financial services: loans held-for-investment, net and investments held-to-maturity: fixed rate $ 19.9 9.9 3.1 1.7 1.7 45.1 81.4 77.1 average interest rate 3.2 % 2.8 % 4.5 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.3 % 3.8 % variable rate $ 0.1 15.2 0.1 0.1 1.3 16.8 16.9 average interest rate % 3.1 % 6.5 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 6.2 % liabilities homebuilding: senior notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 1,003.6 1,080.6 1,759.8 72.4 1,523.1 2,187.1 7,626.6 8,041.3 average interest rate 4.0 % 5.9 % 4.8 % 4.2 % 5.0 % 4.9 % 4.9 % variable rate $ 51.5 50.7 102.2 103.3 average interest rate 4.5 % 2.0 % 3.3 % financial services: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 0.1 154.7 154.8 154.8 average interest rate 5.5 % 3.4 % 3.5 % variable rate $ 1,452.8 138.1 1,590.9 1,590.9 average interest rate 3.5 % 3.6 % 3.5 % multifamily: note payable: fixed rate $ 36.1 36.1 36.1 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % lennar other: notes and other debts payable: fixed rate $ 1.9 1.9 1.9 average interest rate 2.9 % 2.9 % variable rate $ 13.3 13.3 13.3 average interest rate 3.9 % 3.9 % 55 table of contents