risk factors and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. seasonality linde's business is generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any significant extent. research and development linde's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for these gases. this results in the development of new advanced air separation and hydrogen process technologies and the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications. research and development for industrial gases is principally conducted at pullach, germany; tonawanda, new york and burr ridge, illinois. linde conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. surface technologies research is conducted at indianapolis, indiana. patents and trademarks linde owns or licenses a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes. linde's patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. while these patents and licenses are considered important to its individual businesses, linde does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any one particular patent, or patent license, or family of patents. linde also owns a large number of trademarks, of which the "linde" trademark is the most significant. raw materials and energy costs energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. the company mitigates electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass through and tolling arrangements. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where the company conducts business. however, energy availability and price is unpredictable and may pose unforeseen future risks. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. competition linde participates in highly competitive markets in the industrial gases, engineering and healthcare businesses, which are characterized by a mixture of local, regional and global players, all of which exert competitive pressure on the parties. in locations where linde has pipeline networks, which enable the company to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, linde derives a competitive advantage. competitors in the industrial and medical gases industry include global and regional companies such as l'air liquide s.a., air products and chemicals, inc., messer group gmbh, mitsubishi chemical holdings corporation (through taiyo 6 table of contents nippon sanso corporation) as well as an extensive number of small to medium size independent industrial gas companies which compete locally as producers or distributors. in addition, a significant portion of the international gases market relates to customer-owned plants. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2018 , linde had 80,820 employees worldwide. linde has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. linde considers relations with its employees to be good. environment information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned management's discussion and analysis environmental matters in item 7 of this 10-k. available information the company makes its periodic and current reports available, free of charge, on or through its website, www.linde.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). investors may also access from the company website other investor information such as press releases and presentations. information on the company's website is not incorporated by reference herein. in addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec free of charge at the sec's website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. executive officers the following executive officers have been elected by the board of directors and serve at the pleasure of the board. it is expected that the board will elect officers annually following each annual meeting of shareholders. stephen f. angel, 63, is chief executive officer of linde. prior to that, mr. angel was chairman, president and ceo of praxair, inc. since 2007. angel joined praxair in 2001 as an executive vice president and was named president and chief operating officer in february 2006. prior to joining praxair, angel spent 22 years in a variety of management positions with general electric. angel serves on the board of directors of ppg industries and the u.s.-china business council and is a member of the business council. angel received a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from north carolina state university and an mba from loyola college in baltimore. dr. christian bruch, age 49, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of engineering for linde and is a member of the executive board of linde ag. dr. bruch joined the linde group's gases division in 2004 as a business development manager for airgases. in 2006 he became the head of tonnage business development for air separation projects in europe, the middle east and africa. in 2009 he transferred to the engineering division, where he was responsible for the product line air separation plants. in 2013 he was appointed a member of the board of directors at the engineering division, a position he held until becoming a member of the executive board of linde ag at the beginning of 2015 responsible for the linde engineering division and the corporate &amp; support function technology &amp; innovation. prior to joining the linde group, dr. bruch worked for the swiss institute of technology in z rich and for the rwe group in essen, germany. bernd eulitz age 53, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of the americas. prior to this, he was appointed a member of the executive board of linde ag in january 2015, responsible for the gases division of europe, middle east and africa. he also led the global functions centre of excellence and procurement. mr. eulitz joined linde ag in 2004 as head of the sales region east in germany. in 2008 he was appointed ceo of pangas ag in switzerland and 2011 he moved to singapore to head the business unit south &amp; east asia covering eleven countries from india to south korea. prior to joining linde ag, mr. eulitz worked for air liquide and a.t. kearney in various roles. kelcey e. hoyt, age 50, became the chief accounting officer of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. prior to this, she served as vice president and controller of praxair, inc. effective august 1, 2016. prior to becoming controller, she served as praxair's director of investor relations since 2010. she joined praxair in 2002 and served as director of corporate accounting and sec reporting through 2008, and later served as controller for various divisions within praxair's north american industrial gas business. previously, she had five years of experience in audit at kpmg, llp. she is a certified public accountant. sanjiv lamba age 54, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the head of apac. mr. lamba was appointed a member of the executive board of linde ag in 2011, responsible for the asia, pacific segment of the gases division, for global gases businesses helium &amp; rare gases, electronics as well as asia joint venture management. mr. lamba started his career 1989 with boc india in finance where he progressed to become director of finance. he was appointed managing 7 table of contents director for boc's india's business in 2001. throughout his 29 years with boc/linde, he has worked in a number of geographies including germany, the uk, singapore and india where he has held numerous roles across the organization. eduardo f. menezes, age 55, became an executive officer a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of emea. mr. menezes previously served as executive vice president of praxair, inc. since 2012, responsible for praxair europe, praxair mexico, praxair south america and praxair asia. from 2010 to march 2011, he was a vice president of praxair with responsibility for the north american industrial gases business and was named senior vice president in 2011. from 2007 to 2010, he was president of praxair europe. he served as managing director of praxair's business in mexico from 2004 to 2007, as vice president and general manager for praxair distribution, inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as vice president, u.s. west region, for north american industrial gases, from 2000 to 2003. anne k. roby, age 54, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. she is the head of global functions. prior to this, dr. roby served as senior vice president of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014, responsible for global supply systems, r&amp;d, global market development, global operations excellence, global strategic sales, global procurement, sustainability and safety, health and environment. from 2011to 2013, she served as president of praxair asia, responsible for praxair's industrial gases business in china, india, south korea and thailand as well as the electronics market globally. in 2010, dr. roby became president of praxair electronics, after having served as vice president, global sales, for praxair from 2009 to 2010. prior to this, she was vice president of the praxair u.s. south region from 2006 to 2009. dr. roby joined praxair in 1991 as a development associate in the company's r&amp;d organization and was promoted to other positions of increasing responsibility. matt j. white, age 46, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the chief financial officer for linde. he previously served as the senior vice president and chief financial officer of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014. prior to this, mr. white was president of praxair canada from 2011-2014. he joined praxair in 2004 as finance director for the company's largest business unit, north american industrial gases. in 2008, he became vice president and controller of praxair, inc., then was named vice president and treasurer in 2010. before joining praxair, white was vice president, finance, at fisher scientific and before that he held various financial positions, including group controller, at gentek, a manufacturing and performance chemicals company. 8 table of contents item 1a. risk factors due to the size and geographic reach of the company's operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company's control, could materially affect the company's future operations and financial performance. management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company: the company may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the business combination. the company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination between praxair, inc. and linde ag, which was completed on october 31, 2018. the success of the business combination will depend on, among other things, the company's ability to combine praxair, inc.'s and linde ag's businesses in a manner that facilitates growth and realizes the anticipated annual synergies and cost reductions without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. the actual integration will continue to involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. difficulties in the integration of the businesses, which may result in significant costs and delays, include: managing a significantly larger combined group; aligning and executing the strategy of the company; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts in geographically separate organizations; coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and aligning insurance coverage; coordinating accounting, reporting, information technology, communications, administration and other systems; addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; the company being subject to irish laws and regulations and legal action in ireland; coordinating the compliance program and uniform financial reporting, information technology and other standards, controls, procedures and policies; the implementation, ultimate impact and outcome of post-completion reorganization transactions, such as the squeeze-out with respect to remaining minority linde ag shareholders, which may be delayed; unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the business combination or the combined businesses; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; and effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. these and other factors could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings. the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the business combination may also adversely affect the company's relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom praxair, inc. and linde ag have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses could harm the reputation of the company. if the company is not able to successfully integrate the businesses of praxair, inc. and linde ag in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. weakening economic conditions in markets in which linde does business may adversely impact its financial results and/or cash flows. linde serves a diverse group of industries across more than 100 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. however, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for linde's products and impair the ability of its customers to satisfy their obligations to linde, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. for example, global political and economic uncertainty could reduce investment activities of linde's customers, which could adversely affect linde's engineering project business. in addition, many of linde's customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and energy industries. downturns in these industries may adversely impact linde during these cycles. additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of linde's manufacturing capacity which may require it to 9 table of contents recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property. increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability. energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. linde attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability, which could negatively impact linde's financial condition or results of operations. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where linde conducts business. however, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. where feasible, linde sources several of these raw materials, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. in addition, linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. a disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact linde's ability to meet contractual supply commitments. linde's international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations. linde has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, trade conflicts and the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. these events could have an adverse effect on the international operations of linde in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. for example, linde has a meaningful presence in the u.k. and the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu has continued to cause, and may in the future cause, political and economic uncertainty, which could have an adverse impact on the markets which linde supplies. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect linde's results. because a significant portion of linde's revenue is denominated in currencies other than its reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of assets and liabilities and related equity. although the company from time to time utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures, its efforts to minimize currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect linde's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. macroeconomic factors may impact linde's ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact linde's financial results and/or cash flows. volatility and disruption in the u.s., european and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for linde to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. in addition, linde's borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on its performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. a decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. 10 table of contents an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the company's financial results. as of december 31, 2018, the net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $27 billion and $2 billion, respectively, primarily as a result of the business combination and the related acquisition method of accounting applied to linde ag. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the company periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on linde's results of operations in the periods recognized. catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of linde and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. the occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods; health epidemics; and acts of war or terrorism, could disrupt or delay linde's ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose linde to third-party liability claims. in addition, such events could impact linde's customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. linde evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts, makes investments in suitably resilient design and technology, and conducts regular reviews of the business risks with management. despite these steps, however, these situations are outside linde's control and may have a significant adverse impact on its financial results. the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact linde's business. if linde fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, it may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. linde is dependent upon a highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. much of linde's competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of key personnel regarding marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. the inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on linde's financial results. if linde fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy linde's products and results of operations could be adversely affected. linde's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases as well as for the design and construction of plants and toward developing new markets and applications for the use of industrial gases. this results in the introduction of new industrial gas applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. as a result of these efforts, linde develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which linde operates. these technologies help linde to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform to grow its business. if linde's research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if linde does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected. risks related to pension benefit plans may adversely impact linde's results of operations and cash flows. pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to linde's plans. linde utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. in particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. 11 table of contents operational risks may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. linde's operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. insufficient or excess capacity threatens linde's ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose linde to liabilities related to contract commitments. operating results are also dependent on linde's ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. failure to do so may expose linde's business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation. also inherent in the management of linde's production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact linde's financial results. linde may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. linde relies on information technology systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. these systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. linde has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in business interruption or malfunction or regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on linde's operations, reputation and financial results. the inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact linde's financial position and results of operations. in addition to the business combination, linde has evaluated and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. although historically linde has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where linde may face risks include: the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization; the need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products; failure to achieve targeted synergies and cost reductions; and inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies. foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned herein, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. also, the anticipated benefit of potential future acquisitions may not materialize. future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact linde's financial results. 12 table of contents linde is subject to a variety of international laws and government regulations and changes in, or failure to comply with, these laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the company's business, financial position and results of operations. linde is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others: environmental protection, including climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies; domestic and international tax laws and currency controls; safety; securities laws applicable in the united states, the european union, germany, ireland, and other jurisdictions; trade and import/export restrictions, as well as economic sanctions laws; antitrust matters; data protection; global anti-bribery laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act; and healthcare regulations. changes in these or other regulatory areas, such as evolving environmental legislation in china, may impact linde's profitability and may give rise to new or increased compliance risks: it may become more complex and costly to ensure compliance, and the level of sanctions in the event of non-compliance may rise. such changes may also restrict linde's ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions, cancellation of marketing rights or restrictions on participation in, or even exclusion from, public tender proceedings, all of which could have a material adverse impact on linde's financial results and/or reputation. doing business globally requires linde to comply with anti-corruption, trade, compliance and economic sanctions and similar laws, and to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure that its employees and other intermediaries comply with the applicable restrictions. these restrictions include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products, services and any other economic resources to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. compliance with these restrictions requires, among other things, screening of business partners. despite its commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, the company cannot ensure that its policies and procedures will always protect it from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by employees or agents under the applicable laws. if linde fails to comply with laws governing the conduct of international operations, linde may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially adversely affect its reputation, business and results of operations. the outcome of litigation or governmental investigations may adversely impact the company's business or results of operations. linde's subsidiaries are party to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising in the ordinary course of business. adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect linde's ability to conduct business. linde and its subsidiaries may in the future become subject to further claims and litigation, which is impossible to predict. the litigation and other claims linde faces are subject to inherent uncertainties. legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements might give rise to expenses which are not covered, or are not fully covered, by insurance benefits and may also lead to negative publicity and reputational damage. an unfavorable outcome or determination could cause a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations. potential product defects or inadequate customer care may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. risks associated with products and services may result in potential liability claims, the loss of customers or damage to linde's reputation. principal possible causes of risks associated with products and services are product defects or an inadequate level of customer care when linde is providing services. linde is exposed to legal risks relating to product liability in the countries where it operates, including countries such as the united states, where legal risks (in particular through class actions) have historically been more significant than in other countries. the outcome of any pending or future products and services proceedings or investigations cannot be predicted and legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements may give rise to significant losses, costs and expenses. the manufacturing and sale of products as well as the construction of plants by linde may give rise to risks associated with the production, filling, storage, handling and transport of raw materials, goods or waste. industrial gases are 13 table of contents potentially hazardous substances and medical gases and the related healthcare services must comply with the relevant specifications in order to not adversely affect the health of patients treated with them. linde's products and services, if defective or not handled or performed appropriately, may lead to personal injuries, business interruptions, environmental damages or other significant damages, which may result, among other consequences, in liability, losses, monetary penalties or compensation payments, environmental clean-up costs or other costs and expenses, exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for future development of the business and loss of reputation. all these consequences could have a material adverse effect on linde's business and results of operations. u.s. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against linde. linde is organized under the laws of ireland and substantial portions of its assets will be located outside of the united states. in addition, certain directors and officers of linde and its subsidiaries reside outside the united states. as a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the united states upon linde or such persons, or to enforce outside the united states judgments obtained against such persons in u.s. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the united states, rights predicated upon the u.s. federal securities laws. a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the united states based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in ireland. there is no treaty between ireland and the united states providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. the following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in ireland (i) the judgment must be for a definite sum, (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive; and (iii) the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. an irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (i) was obtained by fraud; (ii) violated irish public policy; (iii) is in breach of natural justice; or (iv) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. in addition, there is doubt as to whether an irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on linde or such persons in an original action predicated solely upon the u.s. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in ireland against linde or such member, officer or expert, respectively. changes in tax laws or policy could adversely impact the company's financial position or results of operations. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the u.s., germany, ireland, the u.k. and other countries in which they operate. those tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. under current economic and political conditions, including the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu, tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., the u.k. and the eu, are subject to significant change. in particular,since linde is expected to be treated as u.k. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to u.k. tax-resident companies would directly affect linde. a change in linde's tax residency could have a negative effect on the company's future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. if linde ceases to be resident in the united kingdom and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to united kingdom exit charges, and/or could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction. if linde were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to duplicative taxation. furthermore, although linde is incorporated in ireland and is not expected to be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the irs could disagree with this result or that changes in u.s. federal income tax law could alter this result. if the irs successfully asserted such a position or the law were to change, significant adverse tax consequences may result for linde, the company and linde's shareholders. when tax rules change, this may result in a higher tax expense and the need to make higher tax payments. in addition, changes in tax legislation may have a significant impact on linde's and its subsidiaries' tax receivables and tax liabilities as well as on their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities and uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict their opportunities to enforce their respective rights under the law. linde will also operate in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. interpretations of these regulations or changes in the tax system might have an adverse impact on the tax liabilities, profitability and business operations of 14 table of contents linde. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic audits by the tax authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in linde's or its subsidiaries' financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. seasonality linde's business is generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any significant extent. research and development linde's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for these gases. this results in the development of new advanced air separation and hydrogen process technologies and the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications. research and development for industrial gases is principally conducted at pullach, germany; tonawanda, new york and burr ridge, illinois. linde conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. surface technologies research is conducted at indianapolis, indiana. patents and trademarks linde owns or licenses a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes. linde's patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. while these patents and licenses are considered important to its individual businesses, linde does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any one particular patent, or patent license, or family of patents. linde also owns a large number of trademarks, of which the "linde" trademark is the most significant. raw materials and energy costs energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. the company mitigates electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass through and tolling arrangements. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where the company conducts business. however, energy availability and price is unpredictable and may pose unforeseen future risks. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. competition linde participates in highly competitive markets in the industrial gases, engineering and healthcare businesses, which are characterized by a mixture of local, regional and global players, all of which exert competitive pressure on the parties. in locations where linde has pipeline networks, which enable the company to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, linde derives a competitive advantage. competitors in the industrial and medical gases industry include global and regional companies such as l'air liquide s.a., air products and chemicals, inc., messer group gmbh, mitsubishi chemical holdings corporation (through taiyo 6 table of contents nippon sanso corporation) as well as an extensive number of small to medium size independent industrial gas companies which compete locally as producers or distributors. in addition, a significant portion of the international gases market relates to customer-owned plants. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2018 , linde had 80,820 employees worldwide. linde has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. linde considers relations with its employees to be good. environment information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned management's discussion and analysis environmental matters in item 7 of this 10-k. available information the company makes its periodic and current reports available, free of charge, on or through its website, www.linde.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). investors may also access from the company website other investor information such as press releases and presentations. information on the company's website is not incorporated by reference herein. in addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec free of charge at the sec's website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. executive officers the following executive officers have been elected by the board of directors and serve at the pleasure of the board. it is expected that the board will elect officers annually following each annual meeting of shareholders. stephen f. angel, 63, is chief executive officer of linde. prior to that, mr. angel was chairman, president and ceo of praxair, inc. since 2007. angel joined praxair in 2001 as an executive vice president and was named president and chief operating officer in february 2006. prior to joining praxair, angel spent 22 years in a variety of management positions with general electric. angel serves on the board of directors of ppg industries and the u.s.-china business council and is a member of the business council. angel received a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from north carolina state university and an mba from loyola college in baltimore. dr. christian bruch, age 49, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of engineering for linde and is a member of the executive board of linde ag. dr. bruch joined the linde group's gases division in 2004 as a business development manager for airgases. in 2006 he became the head of tonnage business development for air separation projects in europe, the middle east and africa. in 2009 he transferred to the engineering division, where he was responsible for the product line air separation plants. in 2013 he was appointed a member of the board of directors at the engineering division, a position he held until becoming a member of the executive board of linde ag at the beginning of 2015 responsible for the linde engineering division and the corporate &amp; support function technology &amp; innovation. prior to joining the linde group, dr. bruch worked for the swiss institute of technology in z rich and for the rwe group in essen, germany. bernd eulitz age 53, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of the americas. prior to this, he was appointed a member of the executive board of linde ag in january 2015, responsible for the gases division of europe, middle east and africa. he also led the global functions centre of excellence and procurement. mr. eulitz joined linde ag in 2004 as head of the sales region east in germany. in 2008 he was appointed ceo of pangas ag in switzerland and 2011 he moved to singapore to head the business unit south &amp; east asia covering eleven countries from india to south korea. prior to joining linde ag, mr. eulitz worked for air liquide and a.t. kearney in various roles. kelcey e. hoyt, age 50, became the chief accounting officer of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. prior to this, she served as vice president and controller of praxair, inc. effective august 1, 2016. prior to becoming controller, she served as praxair's director of investor relations since 2010. she joined praxair in 2002 and served as director of corporate accounting and sec reporting through 2008, and later served as controller for various divisions within praxair's north american industrial gas business. previously, she had five years of experience in audit at kpmg, llp. she is a certified public accountant. sanjiv lamba age 54, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the head of apac. mr. lamba was appointed a member of the executive board of linde ag in 2011, responsible for the asia, pacific segment of the gases division, for global gases businesses helium &amp; rare gases, electronics as well as asia joint venture management. mr. lamba started his career 1989 with boc india in finance where he progressed to become director of finance. he was appointed managing 7 table of contents director for boc's india's business in 2001. throughout his 29 years with boc/linde, he has worked in a number of geographies including germany, the uk, singapore and india where he has held numerous roles across the organization. eduardo f. menezes, age 55, became an executive officer a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of emea. mr. menezes previously served as executive vice president of praxair, inc. since 2012, responsible for praxair europe, praxair mexico, praxair south america and praxair asia. from 2010 to march 2011, he was a vice president of praxair with responsibility for the north american industrial gases business and was named senior vice president in 2011. from 2007 to 2010, he was president of praxair europe. he served as managing director of praxair's business in mexico from 2004 to 2007, as vice president and general manager for praxair distribution, inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as vice president, u.s. west region, for north american industrial gases, from 2000 to 2003. anne k. roby, age 54, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. she is the head of global functions. prior to this, dr. roby served as senior vice president of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014, responsible for global supply systems, r&amp;d, global market development, global operations excellence, global strategic sales, global procurement, sustainability and safety, health and environment. from 2011to 2013, she served as president of praxair asia, responsible for praxair's industrial gases business in china, india, south korea and thailand as well as the electronics market globally. in 2010, dr. roby became president of praxair electronics, after having served as vice president, global sales, for praxair from 2009 to 2010. prior to this, she was vice president of the praxair u.s. south region from 2006 to 2009. dr. roby joined praxair in 1991 as a development associate in the company's r&amp;d organization and was promoted to other positions of increasing responsibility. matt j. white, age 46, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the chief financial officer for linde. he previously served as the senior vice president and chief financial officer of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014. prior to this, mr. white was president of praxair canada from 2011-2014. he joined praxair in 2004 as finance director for the company's largest business unit, north american industrial gases. in 2008, he became vice president and controller of praxair, inc., then was named vice president and treasurer in 2010. before joining praxair, white was vice president, finance, at fisher scientific and before that he held various financial positions, including group controller, at gentek, a manufacturing and performance chemicals company. 8 table of contents item 1a. risk factors due to the size and geographic reach of the company's operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company's control, could materially affect the company's future operations and financial performance. management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company: the company may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the business combination. the company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination between praxair, inc. and linde ag, which was completed on october 31, 2018. the success of the business combination will depend on, among other things, the company's ability to combine praxair, inc.'s and linde ag's businesses in a manner that facilitates growth and realizes the anticipated annual synergies and cost reductions without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. the actual integration will continue to involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. difficulties in the integration of the businesses, which may result in significant costs and delays, include: managing a significantly larger combined group; aligning and executing the strategy of the company; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts in geographically separate organizations; coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and aligning insurance coverage; coordinating accounting, reporting, information technology, communications, administration and other systems; addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; the company being subject to irish laws and regulations and legal action in ireland; coordinating the compliance program and uniform financial reporting, information technology and other standards, controls, procedures and policies; the implementation, ultimate impact and outcome of post-completion reorganization transactions, such as the squeeze-out with respect to remaining minority linde ag shareholders, which may be delayed; unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the business combination or the combined businesses; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; and effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. these and other factors could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings. the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the business combination may also adversely affect the company's relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom praxair, inc. and linde ag have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses could harm the reputation of the company. if the company is not able to successfully integrate the businesses of praxair, inc. and linde ag in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. weakening economic conditions in markets in which linde does business may adversely impact its financial results and/or cash flows. linde serves a diverse group of industries across more than 100 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. however, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for linde's products and impair the ability of its customers to satisfy their obligations to linde, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. for example, global political and economic uncertainty could reduce investment activities of linde's customers, which could adversely affect linde's engineering project business. in addition, many of linde's customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and energy industries. downturns in these industries may adversely impact linde during these cycles. additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of linde's manufacturing capacity which may require it to 9 table of contents recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property. increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability. energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. linde attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability, which could negatively impact linde's financial condition or results of operations. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where linde conducts business. however, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. where feasible, linde sources several of these raw materials, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. in addition, linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. a disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact linde's ability to meet contractual supply commitments. linde's international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations. linde has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, trade conflicts and the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. these events could have an adverse effect on the international operations of linde in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. for example, linde has a meaningful presence in the u.k. and the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu has continued to cause, and may in the future cause, political and economic uncertainty, which could have an adverse impact on the markets which linde supplies. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect linde's results. because a significant portion of linde's revenue is denominated in currencies other than its reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of assets and liabilities and related equity. although the company from time to time utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures, its efforts to minimize currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect linde's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. macroeconomic factors may impact linde's ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact linde's financial results and/or cash flows. volatility and disruption in the u.s., european and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for linde to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. in addition, linde's borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on its performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. a decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. 10 table of contents an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the company's financial results. as of december 31, 2018, the net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $27 billion and $2 billion, respectively, primarily as a result of the business combination and the related acquisition method of accounting applied to linde ag. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the company periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on linde's results of operations in the periods recognized. catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of linde and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. the occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods; health epidemics; and acts of war or terrorism, could disrupt or delay linde's ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose linde to third-party liability claims. in addition, such events could impact linde's customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. linde evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts, makes investments in suitably resilient design and technology, and conducts regular reviews of the business risks with management. despite these steps, however, these situations are outside linde's control and may have a significant adverse impact on its financial results. the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact linde's business. if linde fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, it may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. linde is dependent upon a highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. much of linde's competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of key personnel regarding marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. the inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on linde's financial results. if linde fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy linde's products and results of operations could be adversely affected. linde's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases as well as for the design and construction of plants and toward developing new markets and applications for the use of industrial gases. this results in the introduction of new industrial gas applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. as a result of these efforts, linde develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which linde operates. these technologies help linde to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform to grow its business. if linde's research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if linde does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected. risks related to pension benefit plans may adversely impact linde's results of operations and cash flows. pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to linde's plans. linde utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. in particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. 11 table of contents operational risks may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. linde's operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. insufficient or excess capacity threatens linde's ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose linde to liabilities related to contract commitments. operating results are also dependent on linde's ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. failure to do so may expose linde's business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation. also inherent in the management of linde's production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact linde's financial results. linde may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. linde relies on information technology systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. these systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. linde has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in business interruption or malfunction or regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on linde's operations, reputation and financial results. the inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact linde's financial position and results of operations. in addition to the business combination, linde has evaluated and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. although historically linde has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where linde may face risks include: the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization; the need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products; failure to achieve targeted synergies and cost reductions; and inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies. foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned herein, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. also, the anticipated benefit of potential future acquisitions may not materialize. future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact linde's financial results. 12 table of contents linde is subject to a variety of international laws and government regulations and changes in, or failure to comply with, these laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the company's business, financial position and results of operations. linde is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others: environmental protection, including climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies; domestic and international tax laws and currency controls; safety; securities laws applicable in the united states, the european union, germany, ireland, and other jurisdictions; trade and import/export restrictions, as well as economic sanctions laws; antitrust matters; data protection; global anti-bribery laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act; and healthcare regulations. changes in these or other regulatory areas, such as evolving environmental legislation in china, may impact linde's profitability and may give rise to new or increased compliance risks: it may become more complex and costly to ensure compliance, and the level of sanctions in the event of non-compliance may rise. such changes may also restrict linde's ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions, cancellation of marketing rights or restrictions on participation in, or even exclusion from, public tender proceedings, all of which could have a material adverse impact on linde's financial results and/or reputation. doing business globally requires linde to comply with anti-corruption, trade, compliance and economic sanctions and similar laws, and to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure that its employees and other intermediaries comply with the applicable restrictions. these restrictions include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products, services and any other economic resources to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. compliance with these restrictions requires, among other things, screening of business partners. despite its commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, the company cannot ensure that its policies and procedures will always protect it from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by employees or agents under the applicable laws. if linde fails to comply with laws governing the conduct of international operations, linde may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially adversely affect its reputation, business and results of operations. the outcome of litigation or governmental investigations may adversely impact the company's business or results of operations. linde's subsidiaries are party to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising in the ordinary course of business. adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect linde's ability to conduct business. linde and its subsidiaries may in the future become subject to further claims and litigation, which is impossible to predict. the litigation and other claims linde faces are subject to inherent uncertainties. legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements might give rise to expenses which are not covered, or are not fully covered, by insurance benefits and may also lead to negative publicity and reputational damage. an unfavorable outcome or determination could cause a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations. potential product defects or inadequate customer care may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. risks associated with products and services may result in potential liability claims, the loss of customers or damage to linde's reputation. principal possible causes of risks associated with products and services are product defects or an inadequate level of customer care when linde is providing services. linde is exposed to legal risks relating to product liability in the countries where it operates, including countries such as the united states, where legal risks (in particular through class actions) have historically been more significant than in other countries. the outcome of any pending or future products and services proceedings or investigations cannot be predicted and legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements may give rise to significant losses, costs and expenses. the manufacturing and sale of products as well as the construction of plants by linde may give rise to risks associated with the production, filling, storage, handling and transport of raw materials, goods or waste. industrial gases are 13 table of contents potentially hazardous substances and medical gases and the related healthcare services must comply with the relevant specifications in order to not adversely affect the health of patients treated with them. linde's products and services, if defective or not handled or performed appropriately, may lead to personal injuries, business interruptions, environmental damages or other significant damages, which may result, among other consequences, in liability, losses, monetary penalties or compensation payments, environmental clean-up costs or other costs and expenses, exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for future development of the business and loss of reputation. all these consequences could have a material adverse effect on linde's business and results of operations. u.s. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against linde. linde is organized under the laws of ireland and substantial portions of its assets will be located outside of the united states. in addition, certain directors and officers of linde and its subsidiaries reside outside the united states. as a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the united states upon linde or such persons, or to enforce outside the united states judgments obtained against such persons in u.s. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the united states, rights predicated upon the u.s. federal securities laws. a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the united states based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in ireland. there is no treaty between ireland and the united states providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. the following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in ireland (i) the judgment must be for a definite sum, (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive; and (iii) the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. an irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (i) was obtained by fraud; (ii) violated irish public policy; (iii) is in breach of natural justice; or (iv) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. in addition, there is doubt as to whether an irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on linde or such persons in an original action predicated solely upon the u.s. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in ireland against linde or such member, officer or expert, respectively. changes in tax laws or policy could adversely impact the company's financial position or results of operations. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the u.s., germany, ireland, the u.k. and other countries in which they operate. those tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. under current economic and political conditions, including the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu, tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., the u.k. and the eu, are subject to significant change. in particular,since linde is expected to be treated as u.k. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to u.k. tax-resident companies would directly affect linde. a change in linde's tax residency could have a negative effect on the company's future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. if linde ceases to be resident in the united kingdom and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to united kingdom exit charges, and/or could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction. if linde were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to duplicative taxation. furthermore, although linde is incorporated in ireland and is not expected to be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the irs could disagree with this result or that changes in u.s. federal income tax law could alter this result. if the irs successfully asserted such a position or the law were to change, significant adverse tax consequences may result for linde, the company and linde's shareholders. when tax rules change, this may result in a higher tax expense and the need to make higher tax payments. in addition, changes in tax legislation may have a significant impact on linde's and its subsidiaries' tax receivables and tax liabilities as well as on their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities and uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict their opportunities to enforce their respective rights under the law. linde will also operate in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. interpretations of these regulations or changes in the tax system might have an adverse impact on the tax liabilities, profitability and business operations of 14 table of contents linde. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic audits by the tax authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in linde's or its subsidiaries' financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made. 15 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments linde has received no written sec staff comments regarding any of its exchange act reports which remain unresolved. item 2. properties linde plc's principal executive offices are located in owned office space in guildford, united kingdom. linde also owns principal administrative office space in danbury, connecticut and tonawanda, new york, united states; pullach and dresden, germany; and schiedam, netherlands. other principal administrative offices are leased in munich, germany; rio de janeiro, brazil; hangzhou and shanghai, china; liding , sweden; basingstoke, united kingdom; bridgewater, new jersey, houston, texas and tulsa, oklahoma, united states; north ryde, australia; samara, russia; vadodara, india; and singapore. due to the nature of linde's industrial gas products, it is generally uneconomical to transport them distances greater than a few hundred miles from the production facility. as a result, linde operates a significant number of production facilities spread globally throughout a number of geographic regions. the following is a description of production facilities for linde by segment. no significant portion of these assets was leased at december 31, 2018 . generally, these facilities are fully utilized and are sufficient to meet the company's manufacturing needs. north america the north america segment operates production facilities in the u.s., canada and mexico, approximately 260 of which are cryogenic air separation plants, hydrogen plants and carbon dioxide plants. there are five major pipeline complexes in north america located in northern indiana, houston, along the gulf coast of texas, detroit and louisiana. also located throughout north america are noncryogenic air separation plants, packaged gas facilities, specialty gas plants, helium plants and other smaller plant facilities. europe on december 3, 2018 praxair completed the sale of the majority of its european industrial gas business as required for the merger (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). until the divestiture, the europe segment had production facilities primarily in italy, spain, germany, the benelux region, the united kingdom, scandinavia and russia which include approximately 70 cryogenic air separation plants and carbon dioxide plants. there were three major pipeline complexes in europe located in northern spain and the rhine and saar regions of germany. these pipeline complexes were primarily supplied by cryogenic air separation plants. also located throughout europe were noncryogenic air separation plants, packaged gas facilities and other smaller plant facilities. south america the south america segment operates more than 60 cryogenic air separation plants and carbon dioxide plants, primarily located in brazil. many of these plants support a major pipeline complex in southern brazil. also located throughout south america are packaged gas facilities and other smaller plant facilities. asia the asia segment has production facilities located primarily in china, korea, india and thailand, approximately 70 of which are cryogenic air separation plants and carbon dioxide plants. also located throughout asia are noncryogenic air separation plants, hydrogen, packaged gas and other production facilities. surface technologies the surface technologies segment provides coating services and manufactures coating equipment at approximately 45 sites. the majority of these sites are located in the united states and europe, with smaller operations in asia and brazil. linde ag linde ag conducts its operations in approximately 100 countries worldwide. its gases facilities in europe middle east and africa include approximately 230 plants, of which approximately 150 are cryogenic air separation plants, approximately 50 are hydrogen plants and approximately 30 are carbon dioxide plants. its current facilities in the americas include approximately 120 plants, of which approximately 60 are cryogenic air separation plants, approximately 30 are hydrogen plants and approximately 30 are carbon dioxide plants. its facilities in the asia/pacific include approximately 170 plants, of which approximately 110 are cryogenic air separation plants, approximately 40 are hydrogen plants and 16 table of contents approximately 20 are carbon dioxide plants. smaller compact plants for air gases are not included in these figures. additional plants are operated in cooperation with joint-venture partners. on march 1, 2019 linde ag completed the sale of a majority of its north american industrial gases business and certain of its south american business activities as required by the merger (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the linde engineering division designs and constructs turnkey process plants for third-party customers as well as for the linde gases division in many locations worldwide, such as olefin plants, natural gas plants, air separation plants, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants. plant components are produced in owned factories in pullach and tacherting, germany; hesinque, france; tulsa, oklahoma, united states; and dalian, china. item 3. legal proceedings information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned notes to consolidated financial statements 19. commitments and contingencies in item 8 of this 10-k. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable 17 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities linde plc shares trade on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) and the frankfurt stock exchange ( fse ) under the ticker symbol lin . at december 31, 2018 there were 10,439 shareholders of record. purchases of equity securities certain information regarding purchases made by or on behalf of the company or any affiliated purchaser (as defined in rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) of its ordinary shares during the three months ended december 31, 2018 is provided below: period total number of shares purchased (thousands) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program (1) (thousands) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program (2) (millions) october 2018 $ $ november 2018 $ $ december 2018 4,069 $ 154.48 4,069 $ 371 fourth quarter 2018 4,069 $ 154.48 4,069 $ 371 ________________________ (1) on december 10, 2018 the company's board of directors approved the repurchase of $1.0 billion of its ordinary shares ("2018 program") which could take place from time to time on the open market (which could include the use of 10b5-1 trading plans), subject to market and business conditions. the 2018 program has a maximum repurchase amount of 5% of outstanding shares and a stated expiration date of april 30, 2019. (2) as of december 31, 2018, the company had purchased $629 million of its ordinary shares pursuant to the 2018 program, leaving an additional $371 million remaining authorized under the 2018 program. on january 22, 2019 the company's board of directors approved the repurchase of $6.0 billion of its ordinary shares ("2019 program") which could take place from time to time on the open market (which could include the use of 10b5-1 trading plans), subject to market and business conditions. the 2019 program has a maximum repurchase amount of 15% of outstanding shares and a stated expiration date of february 1, 2021. 18 table of contents peer performance table the graph below compares the most recent five-year cumulative returns of the common stock of praxair, the company's predecessor, through october 31, 2018 and linde's ordinary shares from october 31, 2018 through december 31, 2018 with those of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index ("spx") and the s5 materials index ("s5matr") which covers 30 companies, including linde. the figures assume an initial investment of $100 on december 31, 2013 and that all dividends have been reinvested. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 lin $100 $102 $83 $97 $132 $136 spx $100 $114 $115 $129 $157 $149 s5matr $100 $107 $98 $115 $143 $121 19 table of contents item 6. selected financial data five-year financial summary (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018 (the merger date), including the impacts of purchase accounting (see notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the historical periods prior to 2018 reflect the results of praxair. year ended december 31, 2018(a) 2017(a) 2016(a) 2015(a) 2014(a) from the consolidated statements of income sales $ 14,900 $ 11,437 $ 10,534 $ 10,776 $ 12,273 cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 9,084 6,461 5,855 5,918 6,933 selling, general and administrative 1,629 1,207 1,145 1,152 1,308 depreciation and amortization 1,830 1,184 1,122 1,106 1,170 research and development 113 93 92 93 96 transaction costs and other charges 309 52 96 165 131 net gain on sale of business 3,294 other income (expenses) net 18 4 23 28 9 operating profit 5,247 2,444 2,247 2,370 2,644 interest expense net 202 161 190 161 213 net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost (4 ) (4 ) 9 49 36 income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity investments 5,049 2,287 2,048 2,160 2,395 income taxes on continuing operations 817 1,026 551 612 691 income from continuing operations before equity investments 4,232 1,261 1,497 1,548 1,704 income from equity investments 56 47 41 43 42 income from continuing operations (including noncontrolling interests) 4,288 1,308 1,538 1,591 1,746 noncontrolling interests from continuing operations (15 ) (61 ) (38 ) (44 ) (52 ) income from continuing operations $ 4,273 $ 1,247 $ 1,500 $ 1,547 $ 1,694 per share data linde plc shareholders basic earnings per share from continuing operations $ 12.93 $ 4.36 $ 5.25 $ 5.39 $ 5.79 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 12.79 $ 4.32 $ 5.21 $ 5.35 $ 5.73 cash dividends per share $ 3.30 $ 3.15 $ 3.00 $ 2.86 $ 2.60 weighted average shares outstanding (000's) (b) basic shares outstanding 330,401 286,261 285,677 287,005 292,494 diluted shares outstanding 334,127 289,114 287,757 289,055 295,608 other information and ratios total assets $ 93,386 $ 20,436 $ 19,332 $ 18,319 $ 19,769 total debt $ 15,296 $ 9,000 $ 9,515 $ 9,231 $ 9,225 net debt (c) $ 10,830 $ 8,383 $ 8,991 $ 9,084 $ 9,099 cash flow from operations $ 3,654 $ 3,041 $ 2,789 $ 2,695 $ 2,923 net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ 5,363 $ (1,314 ) $ (1,770 ) $ (1,303 ) $ (1,803 ) net cash used for financing activities $ (4,998 ) $ (1,656 ) $ (659 ) $ (1,310 ) $ (1,063 ) ebitda (c) $ 7,133 $ 3,675 $ 3,410 $ 3,519 $ 3,856 adjusted ebitda (c) $ 4,516 $ 3,727 $ 3,506 $ 3,684 $ 3,987 capital expenditures $ 1,883 $ 1,311 $ 1,465 $ 1,541 $ 1,689 shares outstanding (000's) 547,242 286,777 284,901 284,879 289,262 number of employees 80,820 26,461 26,498 26,657 27,780 ________________________ (a) amounts for 2018 include: (i) charges of $309 million ($306 million after-tax, or $0.92 per diluted share) for transaction costs and other charges primarily related to the merger, (ii) pension settlement charges of $14 million ($11 million after-tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) related to lump sum benefit payments made from pension plans, (iii) income tax benefit, net of $17 million 20 table of contents ($0.05 per diluted share) due to u.s. tax cuts and jobs act and other tax charges, (iv) a net gain on sale of businesses of $3,294 million ($2,923 million after-tax, or $8.75 per diluted share), (v) bond redemption costs of $26 million ($20 million after-tax, or $0.06 per diluted share), and (vi) the purchase accounting impacts of the merger of $714 million ($451 million after-tax and non-controlling interests, or $1.35 per diluted share). amounts for 2017 include: (i) charges of $52 million ($48 million after-tax, or $0.17 per diluted share) for transaction costs related to the merger, (ii) a pension settlement charge of $2 million ($1 million after-tax) related to lump sum benefit payments made from an international pension plan, and (iii) income tax charges, net of $394 million ($1.36 per diluted share) due to u.s. tax cuts and jobs act. amounts for 2016 include: (i) a $16 million charge to interest expense ($10 million after tax, or $0.04 per diluted share) related to the redemption of the $325 million 5.20% notes due 2017, (ii) a pre tax pension settlement charge of $4 million ($3 million after tax, or $0.01 per diluted share) related to lump sum benefit payments made from the u.s. supplemental pension plan, and (iii) pre tax charges of $96 million ($63 million after tax and non controlling interests, or $0.22 per diluted share) primarily related to cost reduction actions. amounts for 2015 include: (i) a pre-tax charge of $165 million ($125 million after-tax, or $0.43 per diluted share) related to the cost reduction program and other charges; and (ii) a pre-tax charge of $7 million ($5 million after-tax, or $0.02 per diluted share) related to a pension settlement. amounts for 2014 include: (i) a pre-tax charge of $131 million ($131 million after-tax, or $0.45 per diluted share) related to the venezuela currency devaluation, (ii) a pre-tax charge of $7 million ($5 million after-tax, or $0.02 per diluted share) related to pension settlements; and (iii) a pre-tax charge of $36 million ($22 million after-tax, or $0.07 per diluted share) related to a bond redemption. see notes 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 13 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. (b) as a result of the merger, share amounts for the year ended december 31, 2018 reflect the weighted averaging effect of praxair shares outstanding prior to october 31, 2018 and linde shares outstanding from october 31, 2018 through december 31, 2018. (c) non-gaap measures. see the non-gaap financial measures section in item 7 for definitions and reconciliation to reported amounts. net debt, as presented in the table above, is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents. 21 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion of the company's financial condition and results of operations should be read together with its consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. page merger of praxair and linde ag 22 business overview 23 executive summary financial results &amp; outlook 24 consolidated results and other information 25 segment discussion 35 liquidity, capital resources and other financial data 46 contractual obligations 49 off-balance sheet arrangements 50 critical accounting policies 50 new accounting standards 54 fair value measurements 54 non-gaap financial measures 55 merger of praxair, inc. and linde ag on october 31, 2018 praxair and linde ag combined their respective businesses through an all-stock transaction, and became subsidiaries of linde (collectively referred to as the business combination or "merger"). prior to the business combination, the company did not conduct any business activities other than those required for its formation and matters contemplated by the business combination agreement. praxair was determined to be the accounting acquirer for the merger. accordingly, the historical financial statements of praxair for the periods prior to the merger are considered to be the historical financial statements of linde. the results of linde ag are included in linde's consolidated results from the merger date forward. the linde shares trade on the new york stock exchange and the frankfurt stock exchange under the ticker symbol lin . see notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. in connection with the business combination, the company, praxair and linde ag, entered into various agreements with regulatory authorities to satisfy anti-trust requirements to secure approval to consummate the business combination. these agreements required the sale of the majority of praxair's european businesses (completed on december 3, 2018), the majority of linde ag's america's business (completed on march 1, 2019), as well as certain divestitures of other praxair and linde ag businesses in asia that are expected to be sold in 2019 (collectively, the merger-related divestitures ). in the consolidated financial statements, praxair's merger-related divestitures are included in the results of operations until sold and linde ag's merger-related divestitures are accounted for as discontinued operations. see notes 4 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to merger-related divestitures. additionally, to obtain merger approval in the united states linde, praxair and linde ag entered into an agreement with the u.s. federal trade commission dated october 1, 2018 ( hold separate order or hso ). under the hso, the company, praxair and linde ag agreed to continue to operate linde ag and praxair as independent, ongoing, economically viable, competitive businesses held separate, distinct, and apart from each other's operations; and not coordinate any aspect of their operations until certain divestitures in the united states were completed. accordingly, linde has accounted for linde ag as a separate segment for 2018 reporting purposes effective with the merger date. prior to the merger date, the company's linde ag segment did not exist. since the ftc hold separate order restrictions were lifted effective march 1, 2019, the company subsequently implemented a new operating segment structure as follows: americas; emea (europe/middle east/africa); apac (asia/pacific), engineering and other. this new management structure will be used for 2019 reporting and comparative prior period information will be presented on a consistent basis. 22 table of contents business overview with the merger, linde is the leading industrial gas company worldwide. the company's primary products in its industrial gases business are atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, rare gases) and process gases (carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, electronic gases, specialty gases, acetylene). the company also designs, engineers, and builds equipment that produces industrial gases primarily for internal use; and offers its customers a wide range of gas production and processing services such as olefin plants, natural gas plants, air separation plants, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants and other types of plants. the company's surface technologies segment supplies wear-resistant and high-temperature corrosion-resistant metallic and ceramic coatings and powders. linde's industrial gas operations are managed on a geographical basis and in 2018, 76% of sales were generated by praxair's four geographic segments (north america, europe, south america, and asia), and since the merger date, the linde ag segment generated 19% of consolidated sales. the surface technologies segment generated the remaining 5% of sales. linde serves a diverse group of industries including healthcare, petroleum refining, manufacturing, food, beverage carbonation, fiber-optics, steel making, aerospace, chemicals and water treatment. the diversity of end-markets supports financial stability for linde in varied business cycles. linde generates most of its revenues and earnings in the following geographies where the company has its strongest market positions and where distribution and production operations allow the company to deliver the highest level of service to its customers at the lowest cost. north and south america ("americas") europe, middle east and africa ( emea ) asia and pacific ( apac ) united states germany china canada united kingdom india mexico scandinavia south korea brazil republic of south africa* australia/new zealand* taiwan *added with the linde ag merger the company manufactures and distributes its products through networks of thousands of production plants, pipeline complexes, distribution centers and delivery vehicles. major pipeline complexes are primarily located in the united states. these networks are a competitive advantage, providing the foundation of reliable product supply to the company's customer base. the majority of linde's business is conducted through long-term contracts which provide stability in cash flow and the ability to pass through changes in energy and feedstock costs to customers. the company has growth opportunities in all major geographies and in diverse end-markets such as energy, electronics, chemicals, metals, healthcare, food and beverage, and aerospace. 23 table of contents executive summary financial results &amp; outlook 2018 year in review on october 31, 2018 praxair and linde ag combined their respective businesses through an all-stock merger transaction, and became subsidiaries of linde plc. the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018. sales of $14,900 million were 30% above 2017 sales of $11,437 million , primarily driven by the merger with linde ag that contributed 24% to sales, net of divestitures. underlying sales increased 6% driven by volume growth primarily in north america and asia, including new project start-ups, and higher price. reported operating profit of $ 5,247 million was 115% above 2017 . adjusted operating profit of $2,976 million was 19% above adjusted operating profit in 2017 . adjusted operating profit growth was driven by higher volumes and price across the geographic segments and the impact of the merger.* income from continuing operations of $4,273 million and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $12.79 increased from $1,247 million and $4.32 , respectively in 2017 . adjusted income from continuing operations of $2,121 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $6.35 were 26% and 9% , respectively above 2017 adjusted amounts.* cash flow from operations was $ 3,654 million , or 25% of sales. capital expenditures were $1,883 million ; dividends paid were $1,166 million ; and debt repayments, net were $2,908 million . cash on hand at december 31, 2018 was $4,466 million versus $617 million at december 31, 2017. this increase is primarily a result of the stock only merger with linde ag and proceeds from the sale of praxair's european industrial gases business. the cash is available for corporate uses, including among others the planned squeeze-out of the 8% linde ag noncontrolling interests and stock buybacks. * a reconciliation of the adjusted amounts can be found in the "non-gaap financial measures" section in this md&amp;a. see notes 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 13 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 2019 outlook the company's business is to build, own, and operate industrial gas plants in order to supply atmospheric and process gases to customers. as such, linde believes that its sale of gas project backlog is one indicator of future sales growth. at december 31, 2018 , linde's backlog of large projects under construction was $3.5 billion. this represents the total estimated capital cost of large plants under construction. apac and americas represent 49 percent and 42 percent of the backlog, respectively, with the remaining backlog in emea. these plants will primarily supply customers in the energy, chemical, and electronics end-markets. the above guidance should be read in conjunction with the section entitled forward-looking statements. linde provides quarterly updates on operating results, material trends that may affect financial performance, and financial guidance via earnings releases and investor teleconferences. these materials are available on the company's website, https://www.linde.com/en/investors but are not incorporated herein. 24 table of contents consolidated results and other information the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018 (the merger date), including the impacts of purchase accounting (see notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the historical periods prior to 2018 reflect the results of praxair, inc. the following table provides selected data for 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 : 25 table of contents variance (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2018 2017 (d) 2016 (d) 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 reported amounts sales $ 14,900 $ 11,437 $ 10,534 30 % 9 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 9,084 $ 6,461 $ 5,855 41 % 10 % gross margin (a) $ 5,816 $ 4,976 $ 4,679 17 % 6 % as a percent of sales 39.0 % 43.5 % 44.4 % selling, general and administrative $ 1,629 $ 1,207 $ 1,145 35 % 5 % as a percent of sales 10.9 % 10.6 % 10.9 % depreciation and amortization $ 1,830 $ 1,184 $ 1,122 55 % 6 % transaction costs and other charges (b) $ 309 $ 52 $ 96 net gain on sale of businesses (b) $ 3,294 $ $ other income (expense) net $ 18 $ 4 $ 23 operating profit $ 5,247 $ 2,444 $ 2,247 115 % 9 % operating margin 35.2 % 21.4 % 21.3 % interest expense net $ 202 $ 161 $ 190 25 % (15 )% net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost $ (4 ) $ (4 ) $ 9 % (144 )% effective tax rate 16.2 % 44.9 % 26.9 % income from equity investments $ 56 $ 47 $ 41 19 % 15 % noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (15 ) $ (61 ) $ (38 ) (75 )% 61 % income from continuing operations $ 4,273 $ 1,247 $ 1,500 243 % (17 )% diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 12.79 $ 4.32 $ 5.21 196 % (17 )% diluted shares outstanding (c) 334,127 289,114 287,757 16 % % number of employees 80,820 26,461 26,498 adjusted amounts (e) operating profit $ 2,976 $ 2,496 $ 2,343 19 % 7 % operating margin 20.0 % 21.8 % 22.2 % interest expense net $ 197 $ 161 $ 174 22 % (7 )% net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost $ (18 ) $ (6 ) $ 5 200 % (220 )% effective tax rate 23.8 % 27.2 % 27.1 % noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (73 ) $ (61 ) $ (43 ) 20 % 42 % income from continuing operations $ 2,121 $ 1,690 $ 1,576 26 % 7 % diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 6.35 $ 5.85 $ 5.48 9 % 7 % other financial data (e) ebitda $ 7,133 $ 3,675 $ 3,410 94 % 8 % ebitda margin 47.9 % 32.1 % 32.4 % 49 % (1 )% adjusted ebitda $ 4,516 $ 3,727 $ 3,506 21 % 6 % adjusted ebitda margin 30.3 % 32.6 % 33.3 % (7 )% (2 )% ________________________ (a) gross margin excludes depreciation and amortization expense. 26 table of contents (b) see notes 5 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (c) as a result of the merger, share amounts for the year ended december 31, 2018 reflect the weighted averaging effect of praxair shares outstanding prior to october 31, 2018 and linde shares outstanding from october 31, 2018 through december 31, 2018. (d) prior period information has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance on the presentation of net period pension and postretirement benefit costs. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. (e) adjusted amounts and other financial data are non-gaap performance measures. a reconciliation of reported amounts to adjusted amounts can be found in the non-gaap financial measures section of this md&amp;a. see notes 3, 4, 5, 13 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. results of operations the following table provides a summary of changes in consolidated sales and adjusted operating profit: 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 % change % change sales operating profit sales operating profit factors contributing to changes volume 4 % 5 % 5 % 8 % price/mix 2 % 9 % 1 % 5 % cost pass-through 1 % % 2 % % currency (1 )% % 1 % 1 % acquisitions/divestitures europe divestiture (1 )% (1 )% % % net gain on sale of businesses % 132 % % % linde ag - excluding purchase accounting 25 % 10 % % % purchase accounting impacts - linde ag % (29 )% % % other % (11 )% % (5 )% reported 30 % 115 % 9 % 9 % transaction costs and other charges % 7 % % (2 )% net gain on sale of businesses % (132 )% % % purchase accounting impacts - linde ag % 29 % % % adjusted 30 % 19 % 9 % 7 % the following tables provide consolidated sales by end-market and distribution method: 27 table of contents % of sales* % change* 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales by end-markets manufacturing 22 % 22 % 23 % 7 % 4 % metals 17 % 17 % 17 % 7 % 7 % energy 11 % 12 % 12 % 6 % 5 % chemicals 11 % 10 % 10 % 14 % 9 % electronics 9 % 9 % 8 % 8 % 13 % healthcare 8 % 8 % 8 % 6 % 4 % food &amp; beverage 9 % 9 % 9 % 7 % 5 % aerospace 4 % 3 % 3 % 14 % 11 % other 9 % 10 % 10 % (1 )% 3 % 100 % 100 % 100 % * percentage of sales information excludes linde ag. percentage change information excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures, including the impact of the linde ag merger. see linde ag segment discussion. % of sales* 2018 2017 2016 sales by distribution method on-site 28 % 30 % 29 % merchant 31 % 34 % 35 % packaged gas 30 % 27 % 28 % other 11 % 9 % 8 % 100 % 100 % 100 % * see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 2018 compared with 2017 sales increased 30% to $14,900 million in 2018 compared to $11,437 million in 2017 primarily reflecting the merger with linde ag which contributed 24% to sales, net of divestitures. underlying sales increased 6% driven by higher volumes and pricing. volume growth of 4% was driven by higher volumes in north america and asia, including new project start-ups. higher overall pricing across all geographic segments contributed 2% to sales. currency translation impact decreased sales by 1%. higher cost pass-through, primarily natural gas, increased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. the divestiture of praxair's european businesses in december of 2018 decreased sales by 1%. gross margin increased $ 840 million , or 17% , versus 2017 primarily due to the merger. gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 39.0% in 2018 from 43.5% in 2017 and was negatively impacted by a $368 million charge for the fair value step-up of inventories acquired in the merger. excluding this charge, gross margin in 2018 was 41.5%. selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expenses increased $422 million, or 35% , in 2018 to $ 1,629 million primarily due to the merger. sg&amp;a was 10.9% of sales in 2018 versus 10.6% in 2017, primarily due to the merger. depreciation and amortization expense increased $646 million, or 55% , versus 2017 . the increase is primarily due to the merger, including $346 million of purchase accounting impacts related to the fair value of fixed assets and intangible assets acquired in the merger. transaction costs and other charges were $309 million and $52 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively and are primarily related to the merger. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. net gain on the sale of businesses was $3,294 million and related primarily to the divestiture of praxair's european industrial gases business in connection with the merger. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 28 table of contents other income (expenses) net in 2018 was a $ 18 million benefit versus a $ 4 million benefit in 2017 (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of major components). in north america, 2018 included a $30 million asset impairment charge which was more than offset by $43 million of gains on asset disposals. in asia, 2018 included a $22 million asset impairment charge, offset by a litigation settlement gain. reported operating profit of $5,247 million in 2018 was $ 2,803 million , or 115% higher than reported operating profit of $ 2,444 million in 2017 . 2018 includes a net gain on sale of businesses of $3,294 million , partially offset by transaction costs and other charges of $309 million , and purchase accounting impacts of $714 million related to the linde ag merger (see notes 4, 5 and 3, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements). 2017 included transaction costs of $52 million (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). excluding the impact of these items, adjusted operating profit of $2,976 million in 2018 was $480 million, or 19% , higher than adjusted operating profit of $2,496 million in 2017 driven primarily by the merger. higher volumes and price in the geographic segments and surface technologies also contributed to operating profit growth. a discussion of operating profit by segment is included in the segment discussion that follows. reported interest expense net in 2018 increased $41 million, or 25% , versus 2017 . 2018 included charges of $26 million relating to the early redemption of notes and a decrease of $21 million related to purchase accounting impacts related to the fair value of debt acquired in the merger (see notes 13 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, respectively). excluding these impacts, adjusted interest expense of $197 million increased $36 million, or 22%, largely attributable to interest on the debt acquired in the merger and lower capitalized interest. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to interest expense. the reported effective tax rate ("etr") for 2018 was 16.2% versus 44.9% in 2017 . the decrease in the etr for the 2018 period versus the u.s. statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to the impact of the sale of praxair's european industrial gases business. the increase in the etr for the 2017 period versus the u.s. statutory rate of 35% was primarily due to the net $394 million charge related to the tax act. excluding these and other smaller impacts as set forth in the "non-gaap financial measures" section of this md&amp;a, on an adjusted basis the etr for the 2018 and 2017 periods was 23.8% and 27.2% , respectively. the decrease was driven primarily by the impact of the tax act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017 which lowered the u.s. statutory tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). linde's equity investments are primarily located in the united states, china, and the middle east. equity income increased $9 million in 2018 versus 2017 and included charges of $9 million for purchase accounting impacts related to the fair value step up of equity investments acquired in the merger. excluding this impact, equity income increased $18 million, primarily driven by income from equity investments acquired in the merger. at december 31, 2018 , reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations consisted primarily of noncontrolling shareholders' investments in asia (primarily in china) and surface technologies. reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations decreased $46 million to $15 million in 2018 from $61 million in 2017 . 2018 includes the impact of the merger and related purchase accounting impacts. excluding these impacts, adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations of $73 million increased $12 million , or 20% , primarily due to noncontrolling interests acquired in the merger. reported income from continuing operations for 2018 was $4,273 million , $3,026 million, or 243% , higher than reported income from continuing operations of $1,247 million in 2017 . adjusted income from continuing operations of $2,121 million in 2018 was $431 million, or 26% , higher than adjusted income from continuing operations of $1,690 million in 2017 primarily due to higher adjusted operating profit and a lower effective tax rate. reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("eps") of $12.79 in 2018 increased $8.47 per diluted share, or 196% from $4.32 in 2017 . adjusted diluted eps of $6.35 in 2018 increased $0.50 per diluted share, or 9% , from adjusted diluted eps of $5.85 in 2017 . the increase in adjusted diluted eps was primarily due to the merger and higher adjusted income from continuing operations , partially offset by an increase in diluted shares resulting from equity acquired in the merger. other comprehensive losses for the year ended december 31, 2018 of $299 million resulted primarily from (i) a $221 million unfavorable impact in the funded status of linde's retirement obligations and (ii) adverse currency translation adjustments of $76 million, net of a benefit of $318 million related to the release of currency translation adjustments on praxair's european business (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the decrease in the funded status of retirement obligations was primarily the result of higher current year actuarial losses, as the impact of higher u.s. discount rates was largely offset by a lower actual return on assets. unfavorable translation adjustments reflect the impact of translating local currency foreign subsidiary financial statements into u.s. dollars, and are largely driven by the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies including the euro, brazilian real and canadian dollar. 29 table of contents unfavorable currency translation adjustments included $343 million in south america and $149 million in asia, partially offset by favorable currency translation adjustments of $231 million related to linde ag (primarily europe and asia) representing translation impacts for the period from merger date through december 31, 2018. remaining other comprehensive losses of $2 million relate to the amortization of deferred losses on the company's derivatives and unrealized losses on available for sale securities. refer to the currency section of the md&amp;a and notes 9 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. the number of employees at december 31, 2018 was 80,820 , an increase of 54,359 employees from december 31, 2017 primarily driven by an increase of approximately 56,000 related to the merger partially offset by a decrease of approximately 2,500 from the divestiture of praxair's european industrial gases business. other financial data earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") increased $3,458 million to $7,133 million in 2018 from $3,675 million in 2017 . ebitda in 2018 includes a gain on sale of businesses and purchase accounting impacts, and both periods include transaction and other costs. excluding the impacts of these items, adjusted ebitda increased $789 million to $4,516 million in 2018 from $3,727 million in 2017 driven by the consolidation of linde ag starting october 31, 2018, and higher adjusted income from continuing operations plus depreciation and amortization versus the prior year. see the non-gaap financial measures section for definitions and reconciliation of these non-gaap measures to reported amounts. 2017 compared with 2016 sales increased 9% to $11,437 million in 2017 compared to $10,534 million in 2016. excluding favorable currency translation of 1% and higher cost pass-through, primarily natural gas, which increased sales by 2%, sales growth was 6%. volume growth of 5% was driven by higher volumes in north america, europe and asia, including new project start-ups, and growth in all end-markets. higher price increased sales by 1%. gross margin increased $297 million, or 6%, versus 2016 primarily due to higher sales. gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 43.5% in 2017 from 44.4% in 2016 largely driven by the contractual pass-through of higher natural gas costs to customers. selling, general and administrative expenses increased $62 million or 5% in 2017 to $1,207 million, and decreased to 10.6% of sales versus 10.9% of sales for 2016. currency impacts increased sg&amp;a by $14 million. excluding currency impacts, sg&amp;a increased $48 million driven by higher incentive compensation, acquisitions and cost inflation partially offset by cost reduction actions. depreciation and amortization expense increased $62 million versus 2016. currency impacts increased depreciation and amortization expense by $15 million. excluding currency impacts, depreciation and amortization expense increased $47 million, or 4%, primarily due to large project start ups and acquisitions. during the year ended december 31, 2017, linde recorded transaction costs and other charges of $52 million primarily related to the merger. during the year ended december 31, 2016, linde recorded charges of $96 million related primarily to a cost reduction program. (refer to note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.) other income (expenses) net in 2017 was a $4 million benefit versus a $23 million benefit in 2016 (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of major components). other income in 2016 is largely related to net gains on asset sales. reported operating profit of $2,444 million in 2017 was $197 million, or 9% higher than reported operating profit of $2,247 million in 2016. 2017 included transaction costs of $52 million. 2016 included charges of $96 million related to cost reduction actions. refer to note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these items. excluding the impact of these items, adjusted operating profit of $2,496 million in 2017 was $153 million, or 7% higher than adjusted operating profit of $2,343 million in 2016 driven by higher volumes and price. a discussion of operating profit by segment is included in the segment discussion that follows. reported interest expense net in 2017 decreased $29 million, or 15%, versus 2016. 2016 included charges of $16 million relating to the early redemption of notes (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). excluding this 30 table of contents charge, adjusted interest expense decreased $13 million, or 7%, largely attributable to overall lower net debt. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to interest expense. the reported effective tax rate for 2017 was 44.9% versus 26.9% in 2016. the etr for the 2017 period included a net $394 million tax charge related to the tax act and a $5 million tax benefit related to transaction costs and a pension settlement (see note 5 and note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the etr for the 2016 period includes a $35 million tax benefit related to a pension settlement, bond redemption and cost reduction program and other charges (see note 13 and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). excluding these impacts, on an adjusted basis the etr for the 2017 and 2016 periods was relatively flat at 27.2% and 27.1%, respectively. linde's equity investments are primarily located in the united states, china, italy, and the middle east. equity income increased $6 million in 2017. at december 31, 2017, reported noncontrolling interests consisted primarily of noncontrolling shareholders' investments in asia (primarily in china), europe (primarily in italy), and surface technologies. reported noncontrolling interests increased $23 million to $61 million in 2017 from $38 million in 2016. reported noncontrolling interests for the year ended december 31, 2016 included a reduction of $5 million related to a cost reduction program. the remaining increase was driven by pg technologies, llc ("pgt"), a surface technologies joint venture with ge aviation formed in the fourth quarter of 2016 (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). reported income from continuing operations in 2017 was $1,247 million, or $253 million lower than $1,500 million in 2016. adjusted income from continuing operations of $1,690 million in 2017 was $114 million, or 7% higher than $1,576 million in 2016. adjusted income from continuing operations increased primarily due to higher adjusted operating profit and lower adjusted interest expense - net. reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.32 in 2017 decreased $0.89 per diluted share, or 17% from $5.21 in 2016. the decrease included a $1.36 net income tax charge related to the tax act and a $0.17 charge related to transaction costs and other charges (see note 7 and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). adjusted diluted eps from continuing operations of $5.85 in 2017 increased $0.37 per diluted share, or 7%, from adjusted diluted eps from continuing operations of $5.48 in 2016. the increase in adjusted diluted eps was primarily due to higher adjusted income from continuing operations. other comprehensive income for the year ended december 31, 2017 of $536 million includes favorable currency translation adjustments of $525 million and an $11 million favorable impact in the funded status of retirement obligations. the favorable translation adjustments reflect the impact of translating local currency foreign subsidiary financial statements into u.s. dollars, and are largely driven by the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the canadian dollar, euro, and korean won. favorable currency translation adjustments included $232 million in asia, $153 million in north america and $106 million in europe partially offset by unfavorable currency translation adjustments of $35 million in south america. the increase in the funded status of retirement obligations was primarily the result of lower current year actuarial losses, as the impact of lower u.s. discount rates was largely offset by a higher actual return on assets. refer to the currency section of the md&amp;a and notes 9 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. the number of employees at december 31, 2017 was 26,461, a decrease of 37 employees from december 31, 2016. this decrease primarily reflects the impact of cost reduction programs implemented during the previous year. other financial data ebitda increased $265 million to $3,675 million in 2017 from $3,410 million in 2016. adjusted ebitda increased $221 million to $3,727 million in 2017 from $3,506 million in 2016 driven by higher adjusted income from continuing operations plus depreciation and amortization versus the prior year. see the non-gaap financial measures section for definitions and reconciliation of these non-gaap measures to reported amounts. 31 table of contents related party transactions the company's related parties are primarily unconsolidated equity affiliates. the company did not engage in any material transactions involving related parties that included terms or other aspects that differ from those which would be negotiated with independent parties. environmental matters linde's principal operations relate to the production and distribution of atmospheric and other industrial gases, which historically have not had a significant impact on the environment. however, worldwide costs relating to environmental protection may continue to grow due to increasingly stringent laws and regulations, and linde's ongoing commitment to rigorous internal standards. in addition, linde may face physical risks from climate change and extreme weather. climate change linde operates in jurisdictions that have, or are developing, laws and/or regulations to reduce or mitigate the perceived adverse effects of greenhouse gas ("ghg") emissions and faces a highly uncertain regulatory environment in this area. for example, the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") has promulgated rules requiring reporting of ghg emissions, and linde and many of its suppliers and customers are subject to these rules. epa has also promulgated regulations to restrict ghg emissions, including final rules regulating ghg emissions from light-duty vehicles and certain large manufacturing facilities, many of which are linde suppliers or customers. in addition to these developments in the united states, ghgs are regulated in the european union under the emissions trading system, which has wide implications for the company's customers and may impact certain operations of linde in europe. there are also requirements for mandatory reporting in canada, which apply to certain linde operations and will be used in developing cap-and-trade regulations on ghg emissions. these regulations are expected to impact certain linde facilities in canada. climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies are also being widely introduced in jurisdictions throughout south america, mexico and parts of asia. china has announced plans to launch a national carbon emissions trading system, though it does not appear the regulations will have a direct impact on ghg emissions from linde facilities. among other impacts, such regulations are expected to raise the costs of energy, which is a significant cost for linde. nevertheless, linde's long-term customer contracts routinely provide rights to recover increased electricity, natural gas, and other costs that are incurred by the company as a result of climate change regulation. linde anticipates continued growth in its hydrogen business, as hydrogen is essential to refineries that use it to remove sulfur from transportation fuels in order to meet ambient air quality standards in the united states and fuel standards in other regions. hydrogen production plants and a large number of other manufacturing and electricity-generating plants have been identified in california and the european union as a source of carbon dioxide emissions and these plants are subject to cap-and-trade regulations in those jurisdictions. linde believes it will be able to mitigate the costs of these regulations through the terms of its product supply contracts. however, legislation that limits ghg emissions may impact growth by increasing capital, compliance, operating and maintenance costs and/or decreasing demand. to manage business risks from current and potential ghg emission regulation as well as physical consequences of climate change, linde actively monitors current developments, evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, and takes appropriate actions. among others, actions include: increasing relevant resources and training; maintaining contingency plans; obtaining advice and counsel from expert vendors, insurance providers and industry experts; incorporating ghg provisions in commercial agreements; and conducting regular reviews of the business risks with management. although there are considerable uncertainties, linde believes that the business risk from potential regulations can be effectively managed through its commercial contracts. additionally, linde does not anticipate any material effects regarding its plant operations or business arising from potential physical risks of climate change. linde continuously seeks opportunities to optimize its own energy use and ghg footprint through rigorous energy efficiency, investment in renewable energy, and purchasing hydrogen as a chemical byproduct where feasible. linde maintains related performance improvement targets and reports progress against these targets regularly to business management and annually to linde's board of directors. at the same time, linde may benefit from business opportunities arising from governmental regulation of ghg and other emissions; uncertain costs of energy and certain natural resources; the development of renewable energy alternatives; and new technologies that help extract natural gas, improve air quality, increase energy efficiency and mitigate the impacts of climate change. linde continues to develop new applications that can lower emissions, including ghg emissions, in 32 table of contents linde's processes and help customers lower energy consumption and increase product throughput. stricter regulation of water quality in emerging economies such as china provide a growing market for a number of gases, e.g., oxygen for wastewater treatment. increased concern about drought in areas such as california may create a market for carbon dioxide for desalination. renewable fuel standards in the european union and u.s. create a market for second-generation biofuels which use industrial gases such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. costs relating to the protection of the environment environmental protection costs in 2018 were not significant. linde anticipates that future annual environmental protection expenditures will be similar to 2018 , subject to any significant changes in existing laws and regulations. based on historical results and current estimates, management does not believe that environmental expenditures will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, the consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any given year. legal proceedings see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning legal proceedings. retirement benefits pensions the net periodic benefit cost for the u.s. and international pension plans was $24 million in 2018 , $58 million in 2017 and $51 million in 2016 . the net periodic pension cost for 2018 includes a benefit of $44 million related to gains on settlements triggered as part of the praxair european business divestiture and recognized on the net gain on sale of businesses line. this also includes settlement charges related to lump sum payments (e.g., triggered by change in control or normal retirements) of $14 million in 2018 . settlement charges for 2017 and 2016 were $2 million and $4 million , respectively. the funded status (pension benefit obligation ("pbo") less the fair value of plan assets) for the u.s. plans was a deficit of $556 million as of december 31, 2018 versus a deficit of $560 million at december 31, 2017 . actuarial gains on favorable liability experience that arose during the current year related primarily to higher discount rates and were largely offset by a lower return on assets. the funded status (pension benefit obligation ("pbo") less the fair value of plan assets) for international plans was a deficit of $1,241 million as of december 31, 2018 versus a deficit of $158 million at december 31, 2017. the deficit is primarily due to the linde ag merger. linde' ag's major international pension arrangements are in the united kingdom and germany. global pension contributions were $ 87 million in 2018 , $ 19 million in 2017 and $ 11 million in 2016 . at a minimum, linde contributes to its pension plans to comply with local regulatory requirements (e.g., erisa in the united states). discretionary contributions in excess of the local minimum requirements are made based on many factors, including long-term projections of the plans' funded status, the economic environment, potential risk of overfunding, pension insurance costs and alternative uses of cash. changes to these factors can impact the timing of discretionary contributions from year to year. estimated required contributions for 2019 are currently expected to be in the range of $95 million to $160 million. linde assumes expected returns on plan assets for 2019 of 7.50% and 5.00% for the u.s. and international plans, respectively, which are consistent with the long-term expected return on its investment portfolio. excluding the impact of any settlements, 2019 consolidated pension expense is expected to be $6 million. postretirement benefits other than pensions ("opeb") the net periodic benefit cost for opeb plans was a $4 million cost in 2018 , a $13 million benefit in 2017 and a $5 million cost in 2016 . 2017 includes a curtailment gain on a south american opeb plan of $18 million. in 2019, consolidated net periodic benefit costs for the opeb plans is expected to be approximately $5 million. refer to the critical accounting policies section and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the company's retirement benefits, including a description of the various retirement plans and the assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost and funded status. insurance linde purchases insurance to limit a variety of property and casualty risks, including those related to property, business interruption, third-party liability and workers' compensation. currently, the company self-retains up to $5 million per occurrence for workers' compensation, general and vehicle liability in the united states and retains up to $5 million per 33 table of contents occurrence at its various properties worldwide. to mitigate its aggregate loss potential above these retentions, the company purchases insurance coverage from highly rated insurance companies. the company does not currently operate or participate in any captive insurance companies or other non-traditional risk transfer alternatives. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , the company had recorded a total of $60 million and $35 million , respectively, representing an estimate of the retained liability for the ultimate cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet dates. the estimated liability is established using statistical analysis and is based upon historical experience, actuarial assumptions and professional judgment. these estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity and frequency and are subject to a significant degree of inherent variability. if actual claims differ from the company's estimates, they will be adjusted at that time and financial results could be impacted. linde recognizes estimated insurance proceeds relating to damages at the time of loss only to the extent of incurred losses. any insurance recoveries for business interruption and for property damages in excess of the net book value of the property are recognized only when realized or pending payments confirmed by its insurance companies. 34 table of contents segment discussion through october 31, 2018 the company's operations were organized into five reportable segments, four of which have been determined on a geographic basis of segmentation: north america, europe, south america and asia. the company's surface technologies business represents the fifth reportable segment. these segments are comprised of praxair businesses for all years presented. as discussed above in the section "business overview - merger of praxair, inc. and linde ag" linde ag became a separate sixth reportable segment effective with the merger on october 31, 2018 and, accordingly, linde ag's operations were included in the consolidated financial statements effective from the merger date (see notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). the following summary of sales and operating profit by segment provides a basis for the discussion that follows (for additional information concerning linde's segments, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). linde evaluates the performance of its reportable segments based on operating profit, excluding the items not indicative of ongoing business trends. (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales north america $ 6,420 $ 6,023 $ 5,592 7 % 8 % europe 1,592 1,558 1,392 2 % 12 % south america 1,369 1,501 1,399 (9 )% 7 % asia 1,964 1,738 1,555 13 % 12 % surface technologies 682 617 596 11 % 4 % linde ag 2,873 $ 14,900 $ 11,437 $ 10,534 30 % 9 % operating profit north america $ 1,648 $ 1,517 $ 1,431 9 % 6 % europe 316 301 274 5 % 10 % south america 215 239 263 (10 )% (9 )% asia 427 333 276 28 % 21 % surface technologies 118 106 99 11 % 7 % linde ag 252 segment operating profit 2,976 2,496 2,343 19 % 7 % transaction costs and other charges (309 ) (52 ) (96 ) net gain on sale of businesses 3,294 purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (714 ) consolidated operating profit $ 5,247 $ 2,444 $ 2,247 35 table of contents north america (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales $ 6,420 $ 6,023 $ 5,592 7 % 8 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 3,395 3,167 2,871 gross margin 3,025 2,856 2,721 operating expenses 717 708 676 depreciation and amortization 660 631 614 operating profit $ 1,648 $ 1,517 $ 1,431 9 % 6 % operating margin 25.7 % 25.2 % 25.6 % 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 % change % change sales operating profit sales operating profit factors contributing to changes volume 4 % 6 % 4 % 8 % price/mix 2 % 8 % 2 % 5 % cost pass-through 1 % % 2 % % currency % % % % acquisitions/divestitures % % % % other % (5 )% % (7 )% 7 % 9 % 8 % 6 % the following tables provide sales by end-market and distribution method: % of sales % change* 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales by end-markets manufacturing 29 % 29 % 29 % 8 % 4 % metals 11 % 12 % 12 % 5 % 7 % energy 17 % 18 % 17 % (1 )% 7 % chemicals 11 % 9 % 9 % 25 % 5 % electronics 5 % 5 % 5 % 3 % 17 % healthcare 7 % 7 % 7 % 7 % 5 % food &amp; beverage 10 % 10 % 10 % 8 % 5 % aerospace 2 % 2 % 2 % 21 % 14 % other 8 % 8 % 9 % (2 )% 1 % 100 % 100 % 100 % * excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures. 36 table of contents % of sales 2018 2017 2016 sales by distribution method on-site 30 % 30 % 28 % merchant 37 % 37 % 38 % packaged gas 31 % 31 % 31 % other 2 % 2 % 3 % 100 % 100 % 100 % the north america segment includes linde's industrial gases operations in the united states, canada and mexico. sales for 2018 increased $ 397 million , or 7% , versus 2017 . higher cost pass-through, primarily higher natural gas prices passed through to hydrogen customers, increased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. excluding cost pass through, sales increased 6% primarily due to higher volumes to most end-markets and higher pricing. operating profit in 2018 increased $ 131 million , or 9% from 2017 driven by higher volumes and pricing. operating profit for 2018 also included a $30 million asset impairment charge which was more than offset by $43 million of gains on asset disposals. sales for 2017 increased $431 million, or 8%, versus 2016. higher cost pass-through, primarily higher natural gas prices passed through to hydrogen customers, increased sales by 2% with minimal impact on operating profit. excluding cost pass through, sales increased 6% primarily due to higher volumes to all end-markets and higher pricing. operating profit in 2017 increased $86 million, or 6% from 2016 driven by higher volumes and pricing which were partially offset by hurricane impacts and higher costs, primarily energy and purchased products. europe (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales $ 1,592 $ 1,558 $ 1,392 2 % 12 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 940 889 774 gross margin 652 669 618 operating expenses 190 199 189 depreciation and amortization 146 169 155 operating profit $ 316 $ 301 $ 274 5 % 10 % operating margin 19.8 % 19.3 % 19.7 % 37 table of contents 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 % change % change sales operating profit sales operating profit factors contributing to changes volume 1 % 1 % 5 % 8 % price/mix 2 % 9 % 1 % 3 % cost pass-through 2 % % 1 % % currency 4 % 5 % 2 % 2 % acquisitions/divestitures (7 )% (7 )% 3 % 2 % other % (3 )% % (5 )% 2 % 5 % 12 % 10 % the following tables provide sales by end-market and distribution method: % of sales % change* 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales by end-markets manufacturing 20 % 20 % 21 % 5 % 4 % metals 17 % 16 % 16 % 8 % 9 % energy 4 % 5 % 5 % (4 )% 1 % chemicals 12 % 12 % 14 % 6 % 7 % electronics 7 % 7 % 7 % 2 % 7 % healthcare 12 % 12 % 11 % 6 % 4 % food &amp; beverage 15 % 14 % 12 % 11 % 8 % aerospace 1 % 1 % 1 % (12 )% 3 % other 12 % 13 % 13 % (1 )% 8 % 100 % 100 % 100 % * excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures. % of sales 2018 2017 2016 sales by distribution method on-site 18 % 18 % 19 % merchant 34 % 35 % 35 % packaged gas 43 % 42 % 42 % other 5 % 5 % 4 % 100 % 100 % 100 % linde's european industrial gases business operated in spain, ireland, italy, france, germany, russia, the united kingdom, scandinavia and the benelux region. in connection with the merger, praxair was required to sell the majority of its european industrial gases business. the sale was completed on december 3, 2018 and the european business results are included in the consolidated financial statements through the date of sale. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. sales in 2018 increased $ 34 million , or 2% from 2017 . the divestiture of the european businesses decreased sales by 7%. excluding the divestiture impact, sales increased 9% from 2017. higher cost pass-through increased sales by 2% with minimal impact on operating profit. favorable currency translation increased sales by 4%. higher volumes and higher price increased sales by 1% and 2%, respectively. 38 table of contents operating profit in 2018 of $ 316 million increased $15 million, or 5% from 2017 . the divestiture of the european businesses decreased operating profit by 7%. currency translation impact increased operating profit by 5%. excluding the divestiture and currency impacts, operating profit increased 7% driven by higher price and higher volumes, partially offset by cost inflation. sales in 2017 increased $166 million, or 12% from 2016. higher cost pass-through increased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. favorable currency translation increased sales by 2%. higher overall volumes, including new project start-ups, and higher price increased sales by 5% and 1%, respectively. the acquisition of a carbon dioxide business in the prior year largely serving the food and beverage end-market increased sales by 3%. operating profit in 2017 of $301 million increased $27 million, or 10% from 2016 driven by higher volumes and higher price. favorable currency translation and the acquisition of the carbon dioxide business in the prior year each contributed 2% to operating profit growth. south america (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales $ 1,369 $ 1,501 $ 1,399 (9 )% 7 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 819 905 822 gross margin 550 596 577 operating expenses 187 198 181 depreciation and amortization 148 159 133 operating profit $ 215 $ 239 $ 263 (10 )% (9 )% operating margin 15.7 % 15.9 % 18.8 % 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 % change % change sales operating profit sales operating profit factors contributing to changes volume 1 % (5 )% % (2 )% price/mix 2 % 12 % 1 % 3 % cost pass-through % % % % currency (12 )% (18 )% 6 % 4 % acquisitions/divestitures % % % % other % 1 % % (14 )% (9 )% (10 )% 7 % (9 )% 39 table of contents the following tables provide sales by end-market and distribution method: % of sales % change* 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales by end-markets manufacturing 15 % 17 % 18 % (5 )% (2 )% metals 32 % 31 % 31 % 4 % 1 % energy 2 % 2 % 2 % 1 % 23 % chemicals 10 % 10 % 9 % 7 % 8 % electronics % % % % % healthcare 19 % 19 % 19 % 2 % 3 % food &amp; beverage 14 % 13 % 13 % 3 % 2 % aerospace % % % % % other 8 % 8 % 8 % 11 % (7 )% 100 % 100 % 100 % * excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures. % of sales 2018 2017 2016 sales by distribution method on-site 33 % 33 % 31 % merchant 38 % 38 % 40 % packaged gas 27 % 27 % 27 % other 2 % 2 % 2 % 100 % 100 % 100 % the south america segment includes linde's industrial gases operations in brazil, argentina, bolivia, chile, colombia, paraguay, peru, and uruguay. sales in 2018 decreased $ 132 million , or 9% , versus 2017 . unfavorable currency impacts decreased sales by 12% driven by the weakening of the brazilian real and argentine peso against the u.s. dollar. excluding currency, sales increased 3% driven by higher price and volumes. operating profit decreased $ 24 million or 10% versus 2017 . excluding unfavorable currency impacts, operating profit increased 8% driven by higher price and lower costs partially offset by unfavorable sales mix. effective july 1, 2018 argentina was deemed a highly inflationary economy (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). sales in 2017 increased $102 million, or 7%, versus 2016. favorable currency translation impacts increased sales by 6% primarily due to the strengthening of the brazilian real against the u.s. dollar. excluding currency, sales increased 1% driven by higher price. volumes were flat as new project contribution was offset by negative underlying base volumes in brazil due to weak industrial production. growth in on-site volumes due to new plant start-ups accounted for the increase in on-site sales as a percentage of total segment sales. operating profit decreased $24 million or 9% versus 2016. excluding currency translation, operating profit decreased 13% driven by unfavorable product sales mix and cost inflation which were partially offset by higher price. 40 table of contents asia (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales $ 1,964 $ 1,738 $ 1,555 13 % 12 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 1,215 1,098 998 gross margin 749 640 557 operating expenses 118 122 102 depreciation and amortization 204 185 179 operating profit $ 427 $ 333 $ 276 28 % 21 % operating margin 21.7 % 19.2 % 17.7 % 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 % change % change sales operating profit sales operating profit factors contributing to changes volume 9 % 14 % 11 % 19 % price/mix 2 % 14 % 1 % 8 % cost pass-through 1 % % 1 % % currency 1 % 1 % 1 % 1 % acquisitions / divestitures % % (2 )% % other % (1 )% % (7 )% 13 % 28 % 12 % 21 % the following tables provide sales by end-market and distribution method: % of sales % change* 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales by end-markets manufacturing 9 % 9 % 9 % 16 % 13 % metals 26 % 27 % 28 % 12 % 15 % energy 5 % 3 % 3 % 104 % 14 % chemicals 14 % 15 % 14 % 3 % 20 % electronics 34 % 33 % 33 % 13 % 12 % healthcare 1 % 1 % 1 % 10 % (1 )% food &amp; beverage 2 % 2 % 2 % (6 )% (1 )% aerospace % % % % % other 9 % 10 % 10 % (6 )% 10 % 100 % 100 % 100 % * excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures. 41 table of contents % of sales 2018 2017 2016 sales by distribution method on-site 50 % 50 % 50 % merchant 32 % 30 % 29 % packaged gas 11 % 13 % 14 % other 7 % 7 % 7 % 100 % 100 % 100 % the asia segment includes linde's industrial gases operations in china, india, korea and thailand, with smaller operations in taiwan and the middle east. sales in 2018 increased $226 million , or 13% versus 2017. cost pass-through, primarily energy, and currency impacts each increased sales by 1%. volume growth of 9% was primarily attributable to base volume growth in china, korea and india and new project start-ups in china. higher price increased sales by 2% driven by china. sales growth was the strongest in the metals, energy and electronics end-markets. operating profit for 2018 increased $ 94 million , or 28% , as compared to the prior year driven by higher volumes and price. operating profit for 2018 included a $22 million asset impairment charge, offset by a litigation settlement gain. sales in 2017 increased $183 million, or 12% versus 2016. favorable currency translation and cost pass-through each increased sales by 1%. divestitures decreased sales by 2% due to the sale of an ownership interest in a majority-owned joint venture in india in 2016. excluding these impacts, sales increased 12% driven by base volume growth in china, korea and india, new project start-ups in china and korea and higher price. operating profit for 2017 increased $57 million, or 21%, as compared to the prior year driven by higher volumes and price, partially offset by cost inflation. surface technologies (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales $ 682 $ 617 $ 596 11 % 4 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 448 402 391 gross margin 234 215 205 operating expenses 72 69 66 depreciation and amortization 44 40 40 operating profit $ 118 $ 106 $ 99 11 % 7 % operating margin 17.3 % 17.2 % 16.6 % 42 table of contents 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 % change % change sales operating profit sales operating profit factors contributing to changes volume/price 8 % 19 % 2 % 4 % cost pass-through 1 % % % % currency 2 % 2 % % % acquisitions/divestitures % % 2 % 1 % other % (10 )% % 2 % 11 % 11 % 4 % 7 % the following table provides sales by end-market: % of sales % change* 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 sales by end-markets manufacturing 12 % 11 % 11 % 22 % 2 % metals 8 % 9 % 9 % (4 )% % energy 18 % 19 % 23 % 4 % (12 )% chemicals 2 % 2 % 2 % (4 )% (7 )% electronics 1 % 1 % 1 % 33 % 32 % healthcare % % % % % food &amp; beverage 3 % 3 % 4 % (3 )% (4 )% aerospace 45 % 44 % 40 % 12 % 11 % other 11 % 11 % 10 % 5 % 2 % 100 % 100 % 100 % * excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures. surface technologies provides high-performance coatings and thermal-spray powders and equipment in the americas, europe, and asia. sales increased $ 65 million , or 11% versus 2017 primarily due to higher volumes to the aerospace and manufacturing end-markets and higher price. currency translation increased sales by 2%. operating profit increased $ 12 million , or 11% versus 2017 . currency translation increased operating profit by 2%. excluding currency impacts, operating profit increased 9% driven by increased volumes and price partially offset by project ramp up costs. sales increased $21 million, or 4% versus 2016 primarily due to higher volumes to the aerospace end-market and acquisitions driven by a majority-owned joint venture with ge aviation. operating profit increased $7 million, or 7% versus 2016 due to higher volumes and acquisitions. 43 table of contents linde ag (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 sales $ 2,873 cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 1,899 gross margin 974 operating expenses 440 depreciation and amortization 282 operating profit $ 252 operating margin 8.8 % the following tables provide sales by end-market and distribution method: % of sales 2018 sales by end-markets manufacturing 19 % metals 9 % chemicals &amp; energy 13 % electronics 7 % healthcare 23 % food &amp; beverage 6 % engineering 18 % other 5 % 100 % * excludes impact of currency, natural gas/precious metals cost pass-through and acquisitions/divestitures. % of sales 2018 sales by distribution method on-site 17 % merchant 18 % packaged gas 44 % other 21 % 100 % linde ag became a sixth reportable segment effective with the merger on october 31, 2018. sales of $2,873 million and operating profit of $252 million represent results for the two month period from merger date through december 31, 2018. 44 table of contents currency the results of linde's non-u.s. operations are translated to the company's reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, from the functional currencies used in the countries in which the company operates. for most foreign operations, linde uses the local currency as its functional currency. there is inherent variability and unpredictability in the relationship of these functional currencies to the u.s. dollar and such currency movements may materially impact linde's results of operations in any given period. to help understand the reported results, the following is a summary of the significant currencies underlying linde's consolidated results and the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements (rates of exchange expressed in units of local currency per u.s. dollar): percent of 2018 consolidated sales statements of income balance sheets average year ended december 31, december 31, currency 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 euro 16 % 0.85 0.89 0.90 0.87 0.83 brazilian real 7 % 3.63 3.19 3.47 3.87 3.31 chinese yuan 7 % 6.60 6.76 6.64 6.88 6.51 canadian dollar 6 % 1.30 1.30 1.32 1.36 1.26 mexican peso 4 % 19.20 18.86 18.65 19.65 19.66 korean won 3 % 1,100 1,131 1,160 1,111 1,067 british pound 3 % 0.75 0.78 0.74 0.78 0.74 indian rupee 3 % 68 65 67 70 64 australia dollars 1 % 1.34 1.42 taiwan dollars 1 % 30.13 30.43 32.25 30.55 29.73 norwegian krone &lt;1% 8.13 8.26 8.39 8.64 8.20 argentina peso (a) &lt;1% 26.19 16.51 14.74 37.70 18.65 (a) effective july 1, 2018 argentina was deemed a highly inflationary economy (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). 45 table of contents liquidity, capital resources and other financial data (millions of dollars) year ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 net cash provided by (used for) operating activities income from continuing operations (including noncontrolling interests) $ 4,288 $ 1,308 $ 1,538 non-cash charges (credits): add: transaction costs and other charges, net of payments (a) 40 26 83 add: amortization of merger-related inventory step-up 368 less: net gain on sale of businesses (b) (2,923 ) add: tax act income tax charge, net (61 ) 394 add: depreciation and amortization 1,830 1,184 1,122 add (less): deferred income taxes, excluding tax act (187 ) 136 (13 ) add (less): non-cash charges and other 237 102 (4 ) income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash charges and other 3,592 3,150 2,726 less: pension contributions (87 ) (19 ) (11 ) add (less): working capital 202 (158 ) 52 add (less): other (53 ) 68 22 net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,654 $ 3,041 $ 2,789 investing activities capital expenditures $ (1,883 ) $ (1,311 ) $ (1,465 ) acquisitions, net of cash acquired (25 ) (33 ) (363 ) divestitures and asset sales, net of cash divested 5,908 30 58 cash acquired in merger transaction 1,363 net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ 5,363 $ (1,314 ) $ (1,770 ) financing activities debt increases (decreases) net $ (2,908 ) $ (771 ) $ 357 issuances (purchases) of ordinary shares net (522 ) 108 (89 ) cash dividends linde plc shareholders (1,166 ) (901 ) (856 ) noncontrolling interest transactions and other (402 ) (92 ) (71 ) net cash (used) for financing $ (4,998 ) $ (1,656 ) $ (659 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash $ (60 ) $ 22 $ 17 cash and cash equivalents, end-of-period $ 4,466 $ 617 $ 524 ____________________ (a) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. (b) see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. cash increased $3,849 million in 2018 versus 2017 . the primary sources of cash in 2018 were cash flows from operations of $3,654 million , proceeds from divestitures and asset sales of $5,908 million and cash acquired in the merger of $1,363 million . the primary uses of cash included capital expenditures of $1,883 million , cash dividends to shareholders of $1,166 million , net debt repayments of $2,908 million and net purchases of ordinary shares of $522 million . 46 table of contents cash flows from operations 2018 compared with 2017 cash flows from operations was $3,654 million , or 25% of sales, an increase of $613 million from $3,041 million , or 27% of sales in 2017. the increase was primarily attributable to the merger, higher net income adjusted for non-cash charges and favorable working capital requirements, partially offset by unfavorable changes in other long term assets and liabilities and higher pension contributions. 2017 compared with 2016 cash flows from operations was $3,041 million, or 27% of sales, an increase of $252 million from $2,789 million, or 26% of sales in 2016. the increase was primarily attributable to higher net income adjusted for non-cash charges, a $103 million increase in dividends received from equity companies, primarily in china, and favorable changes in other long term assets and liabilities which were partially offset by higher working capital requirements and pension contributions. 47 table of contents investing 2018 compared with 2017 net cash used provided by investing activities of $5,363 million increased $6,677 million from 2017 primarily driven by proceeds from the divestiture of praxair's european business and cash acquired in the merger, partially offset by higher capital expenditures. capital expenditures in 2018 were $1,883 million , an increase of $572 million from 2017 , driven primarily by the merger with linde ag. capital expenditures during 2018 related primarily to investments in new plant and production equipment for growth and density. approximately 50% of the capital expenditures were in north america with the rest in asia, europe, south america and linde ag. acquisition expenditures in 2018 were $25 million , a decrease of $8 million from 2017 . additionally, $1,363 million of cash was acquired in the merger (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). divestitures and asset sales in 2018 totaled $5,908 million primarily driven by proceeds from merger-related divestitures including $5,562 million from the sale of praxair's european business and $214 million related to the sale of praxair's italian joint venture (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 2017 compared with 2016 net cash used for investing activities of $1,314 million decreased $456 million versus 2016 due to lower acquisitions and capital expenditures, partially offset by lower proceeds from divestiture and asset sales. capital expenditures in 2017 were $1,311 million, a decrease of $154 million from 2016. capital expenditures during 2017 related primarily to investments in new plant and production equipment for growth and density. approximately 60% of the capital expenditures were in north america with the rest in asia, europe and south america. acquisition expenditures in 2017 were $33 million, a decrease of $330 million from 2016. acquisitions in the prior year were primarily comprised of the acquisition of a european carbon dioxide business and packaged gases businesses in north america and europe (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). divestitures and asset sales in 2017 totaled $30 million of proceeds from asset sales. 2016 divestitures and asset sales were $58 million which included proceeds from asset sales and the sale of an ownership interest in a majority-owned joint venture in india. 48 table of contents financing linde's financing strategy is to secure long-term committed funding by issuing public notes and debentures and commercial paper backed by a long-term bank credit agreement. linde's international operations are funded through a combination of local borrowing and inter-company funding to minimize the total cost of funds and to manage and centralize currency exchange exposures. as deemed necessary, linde manages its exposure to interest-rate changes through the use of financial derivatives (see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk). cash used by financing activities was $4,998 million in 2018 compared to $1,656 million in 2017 . the primary financing uses of cash were for net debt repayments, cash dividends and net purchases of linde ordinary shares. cash dividends of $1,166 million increased $265 million from 2017 driven primarily by higher shares outstanding after the merger and a 5% increase in dividends per share from $3.15 to $3.30. net purchases of ordinary shares were $522 million in 2018 versus net issuances of ordinary shares of $108 million in 2017 driven by increased share repurchases. noncontrolling interest transactions and other payments was $402 million in 2018 versus $92 million in 2017. amounts paid in 2018 include $315 million for the purchase of the noncontrolling interest in praxair's italian joint venture in a merger-related transaction (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements) and $25 million in interest related to the early redemption of bonds (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements); while 2017 include dividends paid to nci joint venture partners and repayment of project advances. the cash used for debt repayments-net of $2,908 million increased $2,137 million from $771 million during 2017 while cash increased $3,849 million. net debt (debt minus cash) increased $2,447 million primarily due to debt acquired in the merger partially offset by the repayments of debt and increased cash. the company believes that it has sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves, and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity to meet its business needs around the world. in march 2019, linde's credit ratings as reported by standard &amp; poor's and moody's were a-1 and p-1 for short-term debt, respectively, and a and a2 for long-term debt, respectively. note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information with respect to the company's debt repayments in 2018 , current debt position, debt covenants and the available credit facilities; and note 14 includes information relating to derivative financial instruments. linde's credit facilities are with major financial institutions and are non-cancelable until maturity. therefore, the company believes the risk of the financial institutions being unable to make required loans under the credit facilities, if requested, to be low. linde's major bank credit and long-term debt agreements contain standard covenants. the company was in compliance with these covenants at december 31, 2018 and expects to remain in compliance for the foreseeable future. linde's total net debt outstanding at december 31, 2018 was $10,830 million , $2,447 million higher than $8,383 million at december 31, 2017 . the december 31, 2018 net debt balance includes $14,258 million in public securities, $1,038 million representing primarily worldwide bank borrowings net of $4,466 million of cash. linde's global effective borrowing rate was approximately 1.96% for 2018 . in march 2018, linde repaid $500 million of 1.20% notes that became due and in november 2018, linde repaid $475 million of 1.25% notes that became due. additionally, in december 2018, linde repaid $600 million of 4.50% notes due 2019 and 600 million of 1.50% notes due 2020 resulting in a $26 million interest charge ($20 million after-tax, or $0.06 per diluted share) (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). also in december 2018, linde repaid 750 million of 3.125% notes that became due. in february 2019, linde repaid $500 million of 1.90% notes that became due. in june 2018, the company's $500 million 364-day revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks expired and was not renewed. on december 10, 2018 the company announced a $1.0 billion share repurchase program, of which $629 million had been repurchased through december 31, 2018. this program was completed in february of 2019. on january 22, 2019, the company's board of directors approved the additional repurchase of $6.0 billion of its ordinary shares with a stated expiration date of february 1, 2021. for additional information related to the share repurchase programs, see part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. contractual obligations the following table sets forth linde's material contract obligations and other commercial commitments as of december 31, 2018 : 49 table of contents (millions of dollars) due or expiring by december 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total long-term debt obligations: debt and capitalized lease maturities (note 13) $ 1,523 $ 1,642 $ 1,864 $ 2,336 $ 1,788 $ 4,658 $ 13,811 contractual interest 315 283 232 169 141 621 1,761 operating leases (note 6) 305 236 186 145 102 326 1,300 retirement obligations 245 29 30 31 31 180 546 unconditional purchase obligations 842 767 721 675 583 3,267 6,855 construction commitments 2,100 902 249 4 3,255 total contractual obligations $ 5,330 $ 3,859 $ 3,282 $ 3,360 $ 2,645 $ 9,052 $ 27,528 contractual interest on long-term debt of $ 1,761 million represents interest the company is contracted to pay on outstanding long-term debt, current portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, calculated on a basis consistent with planned debt maturities, excluding the interest impact of interest rate swaps. at december 31, 2018 , linde had fixed-rate debt of $12,565 million and floating-rate debt of $2,731 million . the rate assumed for floating-rate debt was the rate in effect at december 31, 2018 . retirement obligations of $ 546 million include estimates of pension plan contributions and expected future benefit payments for unfunded pension and opeb plans. pension plan contributions are forecasted for 2019 only. for purposes of the table, $125 million of estimated required contributions have been included for 2019. expected future unfunded pension and opeb benefit payments are forecasted only through 2028. contribution and unfunded benefit payment estimates are based upon current valuation assumptions. estimates of pension contributions after 2019 and unfunded benefit payments after 2028 are not included in the table because the timing of their resolution cannot be estimated. retirement obligations are more fully described in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. unconditional purchase obligations of $6,855 million represent contractual commitments under various long and short-term take-or-pay arrangements with suppliers and are not included on linde's balance sheet. these obligations are primarily minimum-purchase commitments for helium, electricity, natural gas and feedstock used to produce atmospheric and process gases. a significant portion of these obligations is passed on to customers through similar take-or-pay or other contractual arrangements. purchase obligations that are not passed along to customers through such contractual arrangements are subject to market conditions, but do not represent a material risk to linde. approximately $2,224 million of the purchase obligations relates to power and is intended to secure the uninterrupted supply of electricity and feedstock to linde's plants to reliably satisfy customer product supply obligations, and extend through 2030. certain of the power contracts contain various cancellation provisions requiring supplier agreement, and many are subject to annual escalations based on local inflation factors. construction commitments of $3,255 million represent outstanding commitments to complete authorized construction projects as of december 31, 2018. a significant portion of linde's capital spending is related to the construction of new production facilities to satisfy customer commitments which may take a year or more to complete. liabilities for uncertain tax positions totaling $367 million, including interest and penalties, and tax liabilities for deemed repatriation of earnings of $291 million are not included in the table because the timing of their resolution cannot be estimated. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures surrounding uncertain income tax positions. off-balance sheet arrangements as discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, at december 31, 2018 , linde had undrawn outstanding letters of credit, bank guarantees and surety bonds entered into in connection with normal business operations and they are not reasonably likely to have a material impact on linde's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. critical accounting policies the policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical to understanding linde's financial statements and accompanying notes prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("u.s. gaap"). their application places significant importance on management's judgment as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. linde's financial position, results of operations and cash flows 50 table of contents could be materially affected if actual results differ from estimates made. these policies are determined by management and have been reviewed by linde's audit committee. purchase accounting as discussed below, linde ag's assets and liabilities were measured at fair value as of the date of the merger on a preliminary basis. estimates of fair value represent management's best estimate of assumptions about future events and uncertainties. in determining the fair value, linde utilized various forms of the income, cost and market approaches depending on the asset or liability being fair valued. the estimation of fair value includes significant judgments related to future cash flows (sales, costs, customer attrition rates, and contributory asset charges), discount rates, competitive trends, market comparables and others. inputs were generally obtained from historical data supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions and growth rates. the estimates and assumptions used to determine the preliminary estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets and liabilities, as well as asset lives, have a material impact to the company's consolidated financial statements, and are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain. due to the timing of the business combination, the magnitude of and multi-national nature of the net assets acquired, and the hold separate order (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements) which deferred integration of the two merged companies, at december 31, 2018 the valuation process to determine the fair values is not complete and further adjustments are expected in 2019. the company has estimated the preliminary fair value of net assets acquired based on information currently available and will continue to adjust those estimates as additional information becomes available. the areas where the fair value assessments are not finalized and, therefore, subject to adjustment during the measurement period relate primarily to identifiable intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, net assets held for sale, equity investments, income taxes, noncontrolling interests, contingencies and goodwill. as the company finalizes the fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, additional purchase price allocation adjustments will be recorded during the measurement period, but no later than one year from the date of the acquisition. the company will reflect measurement period adjustments in the period in which the adjustments are determined. any adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired will be offset to goodwill and any income statement impacts will be recorded at that time. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. depreciation and amortization depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment linde's net property, plant and equipment at december 31, 2018 was $29,717 million , representing 32% of the company's consolidated total assets and including $19,491 million of linde ag assets acquired at fair value in the merger. depreciation expense for the year ended december 31, 2018 was $1,615 million , or 13% of total operating costs. this includes $225 million of purchase accounting impacts. management judgment is required in the determination of the estimated depreciable lives that are used to calculate the annual depreciation expense and accumulated depreciation. property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the assets' estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis for financial reporting purposes. the estimated useful life represents the projected period of time that the asset will be productively employed by the company and is determined by management based on many factors, including historical experience with similar assets, technological life cycles, geographic locations and contractual supply relationships with on-site customers. circumstances and events relating to these assets, such as on-site contract modifications, are monitored to ensure that changes in asset lives or impairments (see asset impairments ) are identified and prospective depreciation expense or impairment expense is adjusted accordingly. linde's largest asset values relate to cryogenic air-separation production plants with depreciable lives of principally 15 years. based upon the assets as of december 31, 2018 , if depreciable lives of machinery and equipment, on average, were increased or decreased by one year, annualized depreciation expense, including linde ag for a full year on a pro forma basis, would be decreased by approximately $528 million or increased by approximately $390 million , respectively. see notes 3, 9 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. amortization of other intangible assets linde's net other intangible assets at december 31, 2018 was $16,223 million , representing 17% of the company's consolidated total assets and including $15,636 million of linde ag other intangible assets acquired at fair value in the merger ($13,967 million with finite lives and $1,669 million with indefinite lives). amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets for the year ended december 31, 2018 was $215 million , or 2% of total operating costs. this 51 table of contents includes $121 million of purchase accounting impacts. management judgment is required in the determination of the estimated amortizable lives that are used to calculate the annual amortization expense and accumulated amortization. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. based upon the assets as of december 31, 2018 , if amortization lives of other intangible assets, on average, were increased or decreased by one year, annualized amortization expense, including linde ag for a full year on a pro forma basis, would be decreased by approximately $65 million or increased by approximately $49 million , respectively. see notes 3, 9, and 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. revenue recognition long term construction contracts the company designs and manufactures equipment for air separation and other varied gas production and processing plants manufactured specifically for end customers. revenue from sale of equipment is generally recognized over time as linde has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date and performance does not create an asset with alternative use. for contracts recognized over time, revenue is recognized primarily using a cost incurred input method. costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion are used to measure progress toward satisfying performance obligations. costs incurred include material, labor, and overhead costs and represent work contributing and proportionate to the transfer of control to the customer. contract modifications are typically accounted for as part of the existing contract and are recognized as a cumulative adjustment for the inception-to-date effect of such change. we assess performance as progress towards completion is achieved on specific projects, earnings will be impacted by changes to our forecast of revenues and costs on these projects. pension benefits pension benefits represent financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to the company's plans. the company utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. several key assumptions are used in actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the financial statements. management believes the three most significant variables in the models are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, and the expected rate of compensation increase. the actuarial models also use assumptions for various other factors, including employee turnover, retirement age, and mortality. linde management believes the assumptions used in the actuarial calculations are reasonable, reflect the company's experience and expectations for the future and are within accepted practices in each of the respective geographic locations in which it operates. actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors. the sensitivities to each of the key assumptions presented below exclude the impact of special items that occurred during the year (e.g., settlement gains from divestitures, settlement charges resulting from change in control provisions, etc.). the weighted-average expected long-term rates of return on pension plan assets were 7.62% for u.s. plans and 5.13% for international plans for the year ended december 31, 2018 ( 8.00% and 7.91% , respectively at december 31, 2017 ). the expected long term rate of return on the u.s. and international plan assets is estimated based on the plans' investment strategy and asset allocation, historical capital market performance and, to a lesser extent, historical plan performance. a 0.50% change in these expected long-term rates of return, with all other variables held constant, would change linde's pension expense by approximately $38 million. the company has consistently used a market-related value of assets rather than the fair value at the measurement date to determine annual pension expense. the market-related value recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period. as a result, changes in the fair value of assets from year to year are not immediately reflected in the company's annual pension expense. instead, annual pension expense in future periods will be impacted as deferred investment gains or losses are recognized in the market-related value of assets over the five-year period. the consolidated market-related value of assets was $8,530 million, or $286 million higher than the fair value of assets of $8,244 million at december 31, 2018 . these net deferred investment gains of $286 million will be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets ratably over the next four years and will impact future pension expense. future actual investment gains or losses will impact the market-related value of assets and, therefore, will impact future annual pension expense in a similar manner. discount rates are used to calculate the present value of plan liabilities and pension costs and are determined annually by management. for fiscal year 2016, praxair changed the approach that it used to determine the service and interest cost components of pension and opeb expense for significant plans to the spot rate approach. linde ag also adopted the spot 52 table of contents rate approach for its material u.s. and international pension plans as of the merger date. under this approach u.s. plans that do not use the spot rate approach continue to determine discount rates by using a cash flow matching model provided by the company's independent actuaries. the model includes a portfolio of corporate bonds graded aa or better by at least half of the ratings agencies and matches the u.s. plans' projected cash flows to the calculated spot rates. discount rates for the remaining international plans are based on market yields for high-quality fixed income investments representing the approximate duration of the pension liabilities on the measurement date. refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the discount rates used to calculate plan liabilities and benefit costs, and to the retirement benefits section of the consolidated results and other information section of this md&amp;a for a further discussion of 2018 benefit costs. a 0.50% change in discount rates, with all other variables held constant, would decrease/increase linde's pension expense by approximately $24 million. a 0.50% reduction in discount rates would increase the pbo by approximately $806 million whereas a 0.50% increase in discount rates would have a favorable impact to the pbo of approximately $710 million. the weighted-average expected rate of compensation increase was 3.25% for u.s. plans and 2.38% for international plans at december 31, 2018 ( 3.25% and 3.35% , respectively, at december 31, 2017 ). the estimated annual compensation increase is determined by management every year and is based on historical trends and market indices. a 0.50% change in the expected rate of compensation increase, with all other variables held constant, would change linde's pension expense by approximately $8 million and would impact the pbo by approximately $60 million. asset impairments goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles assets at december 31, 2018 , the company had goodwill of $26,874 million , of which $24,320 million was recorded in connection with the linde ag merger, and $1,669 million of other indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired in the merger. goodwill represents the aggregate of the excess consideration paid for acquired businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. indefinite-lived other intangibles relate to the linde name. the company performs a goodwill impairment test annually in the second quarter or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, and no impairments were indicated. the company has continuously re-evaluated the likelihood of goodwill impairments in its reporting units subsequent to the second quarter test, and does not believe there is indication of impairment for any of its reporting units. at december 31, 2018 , linde's enterprise value was approximately $96 billion (outstanding shares multiplied by the year-end stock price plus debt, and without any control premium) while its total capital was approximately $68 billion . the impairment test allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value. if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value then the company will estimate and compare the fair value of its reporting units to their carrying value, including goodwill. reporting units are determined based on one level below the operating segment level. fair value is determined through the use of projected future cash flows, multiples of earnings and sales and other factors. such analysis requires the use of certain market assumptions and discount factors, which are subjective in nature. as applicable, estimated values can be affected by many factors beyond the company's control such as business and economic trends, government regulation, and technological changes. management believes that the qualitative factors used to perform its annual goodwill impairment assessment are appropriate and reasonable. although the 2018 qualitative assessment indicated that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit substantially exceeded its carrying value, changes in circumstances or conditions affecting this analysis could have a significant impact on the fair value determination, which could then result in a material impairment charge to the company's results of operations. other indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, and no impairments were indicated. see notes 3, 11 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived other intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an individual asset or asset group may not be recoverable. for purposes of this test, asset groups are determined based upon the lowest level for which 53 table of contents there are independent and identifiable cash flows. based upon linde's business model, for property, plant and equipment an asset group may be a single plant and related assets used to support on-site, merchant and packaged gas customers. alternatively, the asset group may be a pipeline complex which includes multiple interdependent plants and related assets connected by pipelines within a geographic area used to support the same distribution methods. income taxes at december 31, 2018 , linde had deferred tax assets of $2,039 million (net of valuation allowances of $237 million ), and deferred tax liabilities of $8,961 million . at december 31, 2018 , uncertain tax positions totaled $319 million (see notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements). income tax expense was $817 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 , or about 16.2% of pre-tax income (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to taxes). in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, linde estimates income taxes based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in various jurisdictions where the company conducts business. deferred income tax assets and liabilities represent tax benefits or obligations that arise from temporary differences due to differing treatment of certain items for accounting and income tax purposes. linde evaluates deferred tax assets each period to ensure that estimated future taxable income will be sufficient in character (e.g. capital gain versus ordinary income treatment), amount and timing to result in their recovery. a valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized to reduce the assets to their realizable value. considerable judgments are required in establishing deferred tax valuation allowances and in assessing exposures related to tax matters. as events and circumstances change, related reserves and valuation allowances are adjusted to income at that time. linde's tax returns are subject to audit and local taxing authorities could challenge the company's tax positions. the company's practice is to review tax filing positions by jurisdiction and to record provisions for uncertain income tax positions, including interest and penalties when applicable. linde believes it records and/or discloses such potential tax liabilities as appropriate and has reasonably estimated its income tax liabilities and recoverable tax assets. if new information becomes available, adjustments are charged or credited against income at that time. management does not anticipate that such adjustments would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, it is possible that the final outcomes could have a material impact on the company's reported results of operations. in 2018, linde completed its accounting and updated its provisional estimate related to the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings under the 2017 tax act in accordance with staff accounting bulletin number 118 resulting in a net reduction to income tax expense of $61 million (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). a provision is made for taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related companies to the extent that such earnings are not deemed to be permanently reinvested. contingencies the company accrues liabilities for non-income tax contingencies when management believes that a loss is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, while contingent gains are recognized only when realized. if new information becomes available or losses are sustained in excess of recorded amounts, adjustments are charged against income at that time. management does not anticipate that in the aggregate such losses would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, it is possible that the final outcomes could have a material impact on the company's reported results of operations. linde is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. these actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). such contingencies are significant and the accounting requires considerable management judgments in analyzing each matter to assess the likely outcome and the need for establishing appropriate liabilities and providing adequate disclosures. linde believes it records and/or discloses such contingencies as appropriate and has reasonably estimated its liabilities. new accounting standards see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning new accounting standards and the impact of the implementation of these standards on the company's financial statements. fair value measurements linde does not expect changes in the aggregate fair value of its financial assets and liabilities to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 54 table of contents non-gaap financial measures the following non-gaap measures are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial information by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company's financial leverage and operating performance. special items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business performance are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. definitions of these non-gaap measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar gaap measures. the non-gaap measures in the following reconciliations are presented in the selected financial data (item 6) or this md&amp;a. adjusted amounts certain amounts for 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014 have been included for reference purposes and to facilitate the calculations contained herein. (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 year ended december 31, adjusted operating profit and margin reported operating profit $ 5,247 $ 2,444 $ 2,247 $ 2,370 $ 2,644 less: net gain on sale of businesses (3,294 ) add: transaction costs and other charges 309 52 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 714 add: venezuela currency devaluation 131 add: cost reduction program 96 165 total adjustments (2,271 ) 52 96 165 131 adjusted operating profit $ 2,976 $ 2,496 $ 2,343 $ 2,535 $ 2,775 reported percent change 115 % 9 % (5 )% (10 )% (2 )% adjusted percent change 19 % 7 % (8 )% (9 )% 2 % reported sales $ 14,900 $ 11,437 $ 10,534 $ 10,776 $ 12,273 reported operating margin 35.2 % 21.4 % 21.3 % 22.0 % 21.5 % adjusted operating margin 20.0 % 21.8 % 22.2 % 23.5 % 22.6 % adjusted net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost reported net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost $ (4 ) $ (4 ) $ 9 49 36 less: pension settlement charge (14 ) (2 ) (4 ) (7 ) (7 ) adjusted net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost $ (18 ) $ (6 ) $ 5 $ 42 $ 29 adjusted interest expense - net reported interest expense 202 161 190 161 213 less: bond redemption (26 ) (16 ) (36 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 21 adjusted interest expense - net $ 197 $ 161 $ 174 $ 161 $ 177 55 table of contents (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 year ended december 31, adjusted income taxes and effective tax rate reported income taxes $ 817 $ 1,026 $ 551 $ 612 $ 691 add: bond redemption 6 6 14 add: pension settlement charge 3 1 1 2 2 add: cost reduction program 28 39 less: tax act 61 (394 ) add: transaction costs and other charges 3 4 less: net gain on sale of businesses (371 ) add: other tax charge (44 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 191 total adjustments (151 ) (389 ) 35 41 16 adjusted income taxes $ 666 $ 637 $ 586 $ 653 $ 707 reported income before income taxes and equity investments $ 5,049 $ 2,287 $ 2,048 $ 2,160 $ 2,395 add: bond redemption 26 16 36 add: pension settlement charge 14 2 4 7 7 add: venezuela currency devaluation 131 add: cost reduction program 96 165 add: transaction costs and other charges 309 52 less: net gain on sale of businesses (3,294 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 693 total adjustments (2,252 ) 54 116 172 174 adjusted income before income taxes and equity investments $ 2,797 $ 2,341 $ 2,164 $ 2,332 $ 2,569 reported effective tax rate 16.2 % 44.9 % 26.9 % 28.3 % 28.9 % adjusted effective tax rate 23.8 % 27.2 % 27.1 % 28.0 % 27.5 % adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (15 ) $ (61 ) $ (38 ) $ (44 ) $ (52 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (59 ) less: cost reduction program 1 (5 ) (1 ) total adjustments (58 ) (5 ) (1 ) adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (73 ) $ (61 ) $ (43 ) $ (45 ) $ (52 ) adjusted income from continuing operations reported income from continuing operations $ 4,273 $ 1,247 $ 1,500 $ 1,547 $ 1,694 add: bond redemption 20 10 22 add: pension settlement charge 11 1 3 5 5 add: venezuela currency devaluation 131 add: cost reduction program 1 63 125 less: net gain on sale of businesses (2,923 ) add: other tax charges 44 add: tax act (61 ) 394 add: transaction costs and other charges 305 48 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 451 total adjustments (2,152 ) 443 76 130 158 adjusted income from continuing operations $ 2,121 $ 1,690 $ 1,576 $ 1,677 $ 1,852 reported percent change 243 % (17 )% (3 )% (9 )% (3 )% adjusted percent change 26 % 7 % (6 )% (9 )% 5 % 56 table of contents (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 year ended december 31, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 12.79 $ 4.32 $ 5.21 $ 5.35 $ 5.73 add: bond redemption 0.06 0.04 0.07 add: pension settlement charge 0.03 0.01 0.02 0.02 add: venezuela currency devaluation 0.45 add: cost reduction program 0.22 0.43 add: tax act (0.18 ) 1.36 add: transaction costs and other charges 0.92 0.17 add: net gain on sale of businesses (8.75 ) less: other tax charges 0.13 less: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 1.35 total adjustments (6.44 ) 1.53 0.27 0.45 0.54 adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 6.35 $ 5.85 $ 5.48 $ 5.80 $ 6.27 reported percent change 196 % (17 )% (3 )% (7 )% (2 )% adjusted percent change 9 % 7 % (6 )% (7 )% 6 % 57 table of contents ebitda, adjusted ebitda, ebitda margin, and adjusted ebitda margin these measures are used by investors, financial analysts and management to assess a company's profitability. (dollar amounts in millions) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 year ended december 31, reported income from continuing operations $ 4,273 $ 1,247 $ 1,500 $ 1,547 $ 1,694 add: noncontrolling interest from continuing operations 15 61 38 44 52 add: interest expense - net 202 161 190 161 213 add: net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost (4 ) (4 ) 9 49 36 add: income taxes 817 1,026 551 612 691 add: depreciation and amortization 1,830 1,184 1,122 1,106 1,170 ebitda $ 7,133 $ 3,675 $ 3,410 $ 3,519 $ 3,856 adjustments: add: cost reduction program and other charges, net $ $ $ 96 $ 165 $ add: venezuela currency devaluation 131 add: transaction costs and other charges 309 52 add: net gain on sale of businesses (3,294 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 368 adjusted ebitda $ 4,516 $ 3,727 $ 3,506 $ 3,684 $ 3,987 reported sales $ 14,900 $ 11,437 $ 10,534 $ 10,776 $ 12,273 ebitda margin 47.9 % 32.1 % 32.4 % 32.7 % 31.4 % adjusted ebitda margin 30.3 % 32.6 % 33.3 % 34.2 % 32.5 % 58 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk linde is exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. the objective of financial risk management at linde is to minimize the negative impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the company's earnings, cash flows and equity. to manage these risks, linde uses various derivative financial instruments, including interest-rate swaps, treasury rate locks, currency swaps, forward contracts, and commodity contracts. linde only uses commonly traded and non-leveraged instruments. these contracts are entered into primarily with major banking institutions thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. also, see notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a more complete description of linde's accounting policies and use of such instruments. the following discussion presents the sensitivity of the market value, earnings and cash flows of linde's financial instruments to hypothetical changes in interest and exchange rates assuming these changes occurred at december 31, 2018 . the range of changes chosen for these discussions reflects linde's view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period. market values represent the present values of projected future cash flows based on interest rate and exchange rate assumptions. interest rate risk at december 31, 2018 , linde had debt totaling $15,296 million ( $9,000 million at december 31, 2017 ). for fixed-rate instruments, interest rate changes affect the fair market value but do not impact earnings or cash flows. conversely, for floating-rate instruments, interest rate changes generally do not affect the fair market value of the instrument but impact future earnings and cash flows, assuming that other factors are held constant. at december 31, 2018 , including the impact of derivatives linde had fixed-rate debt of $12,565 million and floating-rate debt of $2,731 million , representing 82% and 18%, respectively, of total debt. at december 31, 2017 , linde had fixed-rate debt of $8,253 million and floating-rate debt of $747 million, representing 92% and 8%, respectively, of total debt. fixed rate debt in order to mitigate interest rate risk, when considered appropriate interest-rate swaps are entered into as hedges of underlying financial instruments to effectively change the characteristics of the interest rate without actually changing the underlying financial instrument. at december 31, 2018 , linde had fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps outstanding that were designated as hedging instruments of the underlying debt issuances - refer to note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. this sensitivity analysis assumes that, holding all other variables constant (such as foreign exchange rates, swaps and debt levels), a one-percentage-point increase in interest rates would decrease the unrealized fair market value of the fixed-rate debt portfolio by approximately $594 million ($450 million in 2017 ). a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $92 million increase to derivative assets recorded. variable rate debt at december 31, 2018 , the after-tax earnings and cash flows impact of a one-percentage point increase in interest rates, including the offsetting impact of derivatives, on the variable-rate debt portfolio would be approximately $24 million. at december 31, 2017 the impact of a one-percentage point increase was $6 million, holding all other variables constant. foreign currency risk linde's exchange-rate exposures result primarily from its investments and ongoing operations in south america (primarily brazil, argentina, chile and colombia), europe (primarily germany, scandinavia, and the united kingdom), canada, mexico, asia pacific (primarily australia, china, india, and korea) and other business transactions such as the procurement of equipment from foreign sources. linde frequently utilizes currency contracts to hedge these exposures. at december 31, 2018 , linde had a notional amount outstanding of $9,412 million ($2,693 million at december 31, 2017 ) related to foreign exchange contracts. the majority of these were to hedge recorded balance sheet exposures, primarily intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. holding all other variables constant, if there were a 10% adverse change in foreign-currency exchange rates for the portfolio, the fair market value of foreign-currency contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018 and 2017 would decrease by approximately $307 million and $174 million, respectively, which would be largely offset by an offsetting gain on the foreign-currency fluctuation of the underlying exposure being hedged. 59 table of contentsrisk factors to date, the company has not conducted any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the business combination agreement. important risk factors that could impact linde plc's future operations, financial performance and the trading prices of its common shares are presented below. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of linde plc's activities located elsewhere in this form 10-k and the risk factors, including risks related to praxair's and linde's businesses, included or incorporated by reference into linde plc's subsequent filings with the sec. linde plc, praxair and linde must obtain governmental and regulatory approvals to consummate the business combination, which could delay the completion of the business combination or, if not granted, would result in a termination of the business combination. in addition, conditions imposed by such agencies in connection with their approvals may adversely impact the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined group. completion of the business combination remains conditioned upon regulatory approval or expiration or termination of 4 table of contents statutory waiting periods (including extensions thereof) under merger control or competition law regimes in the united states (including cfius approval), the european union, brazil, canada, china, india, mexico, and south korea. in addition, regulatory approvals have been solicited and filings made in other jurisdictions in which the parties mutually agreed antitrust filings to be necessary. the relevant agencies have commenced or may commence in-depth investigations, may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of linde plc's, praxair's and linde ag's respective businesses. for example, on february 16, 2018, the european commission initiated a phase ii review of the proposed business combination and on august 31, 2017, praxair, inc. and linde ag entered into timing agreements with the united states federal trade commission (the ftc ). in accordance with such timing agreements, the proposed business combination will not close before 12:01 a.m. eastern time on the 120th calendar day following the date on which praxair and linde ag provide written notice to the ftc of their intention to close, unless they have received prior notice that the ftc has closed its investigation. while timing agreements with the ftc and a phase ii review by the european commission are customary in large transactions of this nature and the companies are continuing to work closely and cooperatively with regulators, any delay for regulatory reasons could diminish the anticipated benefits of the business combination or result in additional transaction costs. no assurance can be given that the required approvals will be obtained or that the required conditions to the business combination will be satisfied, and if they are, as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals. if the requisite regulatory approvals have not been obtained by october 24, 2018, the business combination agreement will terminate. conditions imposed by regulatory agencies in connection with their approval of the business combination may require changes to the operations of linde plc, praxair and/or linde, restrict their ability to operate in certain jurisdictions following the business combination, restrict the combination of praxair's and linde's operations in certain jurisdictions or require other commitments regarding ongoing operations. such conditions may also restrict linde plc's, praxair's and/or linde's ability to modify the operations of their businesses in response to changing circumstances for a period of time after completion of the business combination or their ability to expend cash for other uses or otherwise have an adverse effect on the anticipated benefits of the business combination, thereby adversely impacting the business, financial condition or results of operations of linde plc, praxair and linde. the companies currently expect to divest certain assets in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals, which may result in loss of value due to the loss of those assets or businesses or a sale of those assets or businesses at less than the desired price or under otherwise unfavorable conditions, in particular as a result of timing constraints and the limited universe of buyers acceptable to the regulatory authorities, especially in challenging market conditions. the business combination agreement contemplates certain revenue and ebitda thresholds with respect to such potential divestitures. the companies may also make certain other commitments regarding ongoing operations in certain jurisdictions in response to regulatory requirements. linde plc, praxair and linde may not be successful in obtaining all required regulatory approvals, and if they are, any restrictions, requirements or conditions imposed by regulators could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects of linde plc and reduce substantially or eliminate the synergies and cost reductions and the advantages which linde plc, praxair and linde expect to achieve from the business combination. in addition, the business combination agreement, or certain covenants therein, may be terminated for, or may terminate as a result of, certain reasons, including, among others, a permanent injunction or order by any governmental entity in ireland, the united kingdom, germany or the united states that prohibits or makes illegal the completion of the business combination, the occurrence of a change, event, occurrence or effect that has had or is reasonably expected to have a material adverse change (as defined in the business combination agreement) on linde ag or praxair, inc. or the failure to obtain approval by requisite governmental regulators and authorities described in the preceding paragraph. no assurance can be given that no event giving rise to termination of the business combination agreement will occur. because the exchange ratios in the merger and the exchange offer are fixed, the market value of the linde plc shares received by praxair shareholders in the merger or by linde ag shareholders in the exchange offer may be less than the market value of the praxair or linde ag shares that such holder held prior to the completion of the business combination. praxair shareholders will receive one linde plc share for each of their praxair shares in the merger and linde ag shareholders who tendered their linde ag shares in the exchange offer will receive 1.540 linde plc shares for each linde ag share tendered and not withdrawn. these exchange ratios are fixed and will not vary even if the market price of praxair shares or linde ag shares varies. the market value of praxair shares and linde ag shares at the time of the completion of the business combination may vary significantly from the value on the date of the execution of the business combination agreement, the date of this document, the date on which praxair shareholders voted on the merger, the date on which linde ag shareholders tendered their shares in the exchange offer or the expiration of the acceptance period. because the exchange ratios will not be adjusted to reflect any changes in the market price of the praxair shares or linde ag shares, the value of the consideration paid to the praxair shareholders in the merger or to the linde ag shareholders who tendered their shares in the exchange offer may be lower than the market value of their praxair or linde ag shares, respectively, on earlier dates. 5 table of contents changes in share prices may result from a variety of factors that are beyond the control of linde plc, praxair and linde, including their respective business, operations and prospects, market conditions, economic development, geopolitical events, regulatory considerations, governmental actions, legal proceedings and other developments. market assessments of the benefits of the business combination and of the likelihood that the business combination will be completed, as well as general and industry-specific market and economic conditions, may also have an adverse effect on share prices. the pendency of the business combination, during which praxair and linde are subject to certain operating restrictions, could have an adverse effect on linde plc's, praxair's and linde's businesses and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. the pendency of the business combination could disrupt praxair's and linde's businesses, and uncertainty about the effect of the business combination may have an adverse effect on linde plc, praxair and linde. these uncertainties could cause suppliers, vendors, partners, customers and others that deal with praxair and linde to defer entering into contracts with, or making other decisions concerning, praxair and linde or to seek to change or cancel existing business relationships with the companies. in addition, praxair's and linde's employees may experience uncertainty regarding their roles after the business combination. employees may depart either before or after the completion of the business combination because of uncertainty and issues relating to the difficulty of coordination or because of a desire not to remain following the business combination. therefore, the pendency of the business combination may adversely affect linde plc's, praxair's and linde's ability to retain, recruit and motivate key personnel. additionally, the attention of praxair's and linde's management may be directed towards the completion of the business combination, including obtaining regulatory approvals, and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of praxair and linde. matters related to the business combination may require commitments of time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that might have been beneficial to praxair and linde. additionally, the business combination agreement requires praxair and linde to refrain from taking certain specified actions, for example significant investments or disposals, while the business combination is pending (except those necessary in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals). these restrictions may prevent praxair and linde from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities or capital structure alternatives and from executing certain business strategies prior to the completion of the business combination. further, the business combination may give rise to potential liabilities, including those that may result from pending and future shareholder lawsuits relating to the business combination or a post-completion reorganization. any of these matters could adversely affect the businesses of, or harm the results of operations, financial condition or cash flows of linde plc, praxair and linde. further, certain adverse changes in the business of linde or praxair in the period prior to the closing of the business combination may occur that would not result in praxair, linde or linde plc having the right to terminate the business combination agreement, or certain covenants therein. if adverse changes occur but praxair and linde are still required to complete the business combination, the market value of praxair shares, linde ag shares or linde plc shares may decrease. if the business combination is not completed, these risks may still materialize and materially adversely affect the business and financial results of linde plc. negative publicity related to the business combination may materially adversely affect linde plc, praxair and linde. from time to time, political and public sentiment in connection with a business combination may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting the parties to the business combination. adverse press coverage and public statements, whether or not driven by political or popular sentiment, may also result in legal claims or in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials. responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceedings, can divert the time and effort of senior management from operating their businesses. addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, could have a negative impact on the reputation of linde plc, praxair and linde, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with regulators, suppliers and customers. it may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. the direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on linde plc's, praxair's and linde's respective business and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations upon completion of the business combination, certain change-of-control rights under material agreements may be triggered. praxair and linde are parties to agreements that contain change-of-control provisions that may be triggered upon completion of the business combination. upon the triggering of these change-of-control provisions, the counterparties to the agreement may be able to exercise certain rights that have a negative effect on praxair, linde or, after the business combination, 6 table of contents linde plc. for example, the terms of linde's approximately 8.5 billion notes outstanding include change of control clauses triggered by a change of control of linde ag and a resulting below investment grade ratings downgrade of linde ag's corporate and debt ratings. in addition, linde's 2.5 billion undrawn syndicated credit facility and praxair's $2.5 billion credit facility each include a change of control clause relating to a change of control of linde ag and praxair, inc., respectively. if parties to agreements with change-of-control provisions exercise such rights, contracts that are beneficial to linde or praxair may be terminated which may have an adverse effect on the business, the cash flows and the financial condition and results of operations of linde plc, praxair and linde. the business combination triggered a mandatory takeover offer with respect to linde's listed local subsidiary in india, and may require such mandatory takeover offers in other jurisdictions. the completion of the business combination will result in linde plc acquiring indirect control of linde's subsidiaries listed on local stock exchanges. should relevant conditions under local laws of individual jurisdictions be met and if an exemption is not available or granted under the respective regulations, the business combination may trigger the obligation to make a public offer with respect to the outstanding shares in certain of linde's subsidiaries that are publicly listed. to the extent that linde plc is unable to obtain any applicable exemption, potentially costly and complex takeover procedures may have to be conducted. in addition, the granting of any applicable exemption may depend on the discretion of the competent authority and may also depend on the competent authority's interpretation of the applicable laws and regulations, including the need for any application for any such exemption. no assurance can be provided that the respective competent authorities will grant the requested exemptions or will confirm that no mandatory takeover offers with respect to any such listed subsidiaries will be required as a result of the transaction, even if such authority may have granted exemptions for similar transactions in the past. accordingly, the business combination will require such a mandatory takeover offer in india, subject to and following the completion of the business combination, and may require such mandatory takeover offers in other jurisdictions, which would result in additional transaction costs and complexity. praxair and linde have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction fees and costs in connection with the business combination. praxair and linde expect to continue to incur a number of significant non-recurring implementation and restructuring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. in addition, praxair and linde will incur significant banking, legal, accounting and other transaction fees and costs related to the business combination. additional costs substantially in excess of currently anticipated costs may also be incurred in connection with the integration of the businesses of praxair and linde. any cost savings or other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses that could offset these transaction- and combination-related costs over time may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. in addition, the timeline in which cost savings are expected to be realized is lengthy and may not be achieved. failure to realize these synergies and cost reductions and other efficiencies in a timely manner or at all could have a material adverse effect on linde plc's, praxair's and linde's respective businesses and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. linde plc may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the business combination. linde plc may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination. the success of the business combination will depend on, among other things, linde plc's ability to combine praxair's business with linde's business in a manner that facilitates growth and realizes anticipated cost savings. in addition, the actual integration of praxair and linde will involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. this process will be time-consuming and expensive, and it may be disruptive to the combined businesses. linde plc may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination. difficulties in the integration of the businesses, which may result in significant costs and delays, include: managing a significantly larger combined group; aligning and executing the strategy of the combined group; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts in geographically separate organizations; coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and aligning insurance coverage; coordinating accounting, information technology, communications, administration and other systems; addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; the combined group becoming subject to irish laws and regulations and legal action in ireland; coordinating the compliance program and creating uniform financial reporting, information technology and other standards, controls, procedures and policies; 7 table of contents the implementation, ultimate impact and outcome of potential post-completion reorganization transactions, which may be delayed or not take effect as a result of litigation or otherwise; unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the business combination or linde plc's business; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined group; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals; and a deterioration of credit ratings. these and other factors could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings, which could materially impact linde plc's business, financial condition and results of operations. the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the business combination may also adversely affect linde plc's relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom praxair and linde have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses of praxair and linde could harm the reputation of the combined group. if the combined group is not able to successfully combine the businesses of praxair and linde in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. linde plc intends to implement certain post-closing reorganization transactions with respect to linde ag. if the effectiveness of such transactions is delayed as a result of litigation or otherwise or does not occur, this may have an adverse effect on the ability to realize synergies and cost reductions and on the market value of linde plc shares. following completion of the business combination, linde ag will be an indirect subsidiary of linde plc and, thus, a dependent company within the meaning of section 17 of the german stock corporation act. the legal framework for this dependency between linde plc and linde ag is, subject to other applicable law, set forth in sections 311 et seq. of the german stock corporation act, which may prevent or impede the realization of synergies and cost reductions absent certain post-closing reorganization transactions, which may include a domination agreement or a cash merger squeeze-out under german law. if the effectiveness of such transactions is delayed as a result of litigation or otherwise or does not occur, linde plc may be unable to initiate any transactions or measures that are disadvantageous to linde ag, unless linde plc provides adequate compensation to linde ag, which may preclude linde plc from implementing certain transactions related to the integration of linde into the combined group, including realizing synergies. the failure to realize synergies may lead to a decline of the market value of linde plc shares. linde plc may experience a loss of customers or may fail to win new customers in certain countries. following the completion of the business combination, third parties with whom praxair or linde had relationships prior to the announcement of the business combination may terminate or otherwise reduce the scope of their relationship with either party in anticipation or after the completion of the business combination. in addition, the combined group may face difficulties to acquire new customers in certain countries. any such loss of business or the inability to win new customers could limit the combined group's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination. such risks could also be exacerbated by a delay in the settlement of the exchange offer and the business combination. linde plc may be unable to retain and motivate praxair and/or linde personnel successfully. the success of the business combination will depend, in part, on linde plc's ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees, including key decision-makers, currently employed by praxair and linde. such employees may decide not to remain with praxair and linde, as applicable, while the business combination is pending or with the combined group after the business combination is completed. if key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees are retained to maintain effective operations, the combined group's business activities may be adversely affected and management's attention may be diverted from successfully integrating praxair and linde to hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause linde plc's business to deteriorate. praxair and linde may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. in addition, linde plc, praxair and linde may not be able to motivate certain key employees following the completion of the business combination due to organizational changes, reassignments of responsibilities, the perceived lack of appropriate opportunities for advancement or other reasons. if the combined group fails to successfully retain and motivate the employees of praxair and/or linde, relevant capabilities and expertise may be lost which may have an adverse effect on the cash flows and the financial condition and results of operations of linde plc, praxair and linde. 8 table of contents a change in linde plc's tax residency could have a negative effect on linde plc's future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. linde plc intends to continue to manage its affairs so that it is centrally managed and controlled in, and effectively managed from, the united kingdom and therefore has its tax residency only in the united kingdom. however, we cannot assure you that linde plc is or will continue to be resident only in the united kingdom for tax purposes. under current irish legislation, an irish incorporated company will be considered irish tax resident except where it is tax resident in a territory with which ireland has a double tax treaty, under the terms of the double tax treaty. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the united kingdom is regarded as resident in the united kingdom for taxation purposes unless it is treated as resident in another jurisdiction pursuant to any appropriate double tax treaty with the united kingdom. other jurisdictions may also seek to assert taxing jurisdiction over linde plc. for example, a company is subject to german taxation on its worldwide income if it has either its registered seat or place of effective management and control in germany. this is a question of fact and needs to be determined on an overall assessment of the actual circumstances. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the united kingdom and ireland, article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the united kingdom (the residence tie-breaker ) currently provides that the company shall be treated as resident only in one of those two jurisdictions if its place of effective management is situated there. a similar situation would exist if linde plc was treated as a tax resident under the domestic laws of both the united kingdom and germany, or of ireland and germany. the organisation for economic co-operation and development has proposed a number of measures relating to the tax treatment of multinationals, some of which are to be implemented by amending double tax treaties through a multilateral instrument ( mli ). the mli has been signed by a number of countries, including germany, ireland and the united kingdom. the mli allows signatories to opt into or out of certain changes: the effect for a given double tax convention depends on the options chosen by the two contracting states. ireland and the united kingdom have indicated they intend to change the residence tie-breaker so that it will depend on a ruling by the competent authorities (that is, the tax authorities) of the two contracting states, instead of an objective application of the place of effective management test. accordingly, if ireland and the united kingdom maintain their position and enough countries ratify the mli, the residence tie-breaker would be amended to depend on a determination by irish revenue commissioners and hm revenue and customs. it is not certain when this will take place nor what factors will be taken into account in making the determination, but linde plc does not expect such a determination to alter its tax residency. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law (including the entry into force of the mli or a change to the intention of germany, ireland or the united kingdom in relation to the mli) or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of linde plc's affairs, linde plc could become, or be regarded as having become, resident in a jurisdiction other than the united kingdom. if linde plc ceases to be resident in the united kingdom and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to u.k. exit charges, and could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction (including, by way of example, dividend withholding taxes or corporate income tax charges). if linde plc were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to multiple taxation. if, for example, linde plc were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, linde plc could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by it could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. if linde plc were to be treated as tax resident in germany, it would become liable for german corporate income tax on its worldwide income and trade tax on its income allocable to its german business, and dividends paid by linde plc to its shareholders could be subject to german dividend withholding tax, and such tax may not be fully creditable or refundable under a double tax convention or the domestic rules of a shareholder. the relevant criteria for linde plc's treatment as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes may not be met, or the irs may not agree with the conclusion that linde plc should be treated as such. although linde plc is incorporated in ireland, the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may assert that linde plc should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). further, changes to section 7874 of the code or the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, could affect linde plc's status as a foreign corporation. for u.s. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered a u.s. domestic corporation (or u.s. tax resident) if it is organized in the united states, and a corporation is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) if it is not a u.s. domestic corporation. because linde plc is an entity incorporated in ireland, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (or non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. however, code section 7874 provides an 9 table of contents exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. unless linde plc has satisfied the substantial business activities exception, as defined in section 7874 and described in more detail below (the substantial business activities exception ), linde plc would be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation ( i.e. , as a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal income tax purposes under code section 7874 if the percentage (by vote or value) of linde plc shares considered to be held by former holders of praxair shares after the merger by reason of holding praxair shares for purposes of code section 7874 (the section 7874 percentage ) is 60% or more (if, as expected, the third country rule applies; under the third country rule, if (i) there is an acquisition of a domestic company by a foreign acquiring company in which the section 7874 percentage is at least 60% (reduced from the general 80% threshold otherwise applicable under section 7874 of the code and the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder), and (ii) in a related acquisition, such foreign acquiring company acquires another foreign corporation and the foreign acquiring company is not subject to tax as a resident in the foreign country in which the acquired foreign corporation was subject to tax as a resident prior to the merger, then the foreign acquiring company will be treated as a u.s. domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes). in order for linde plc to satisfy the substantial business activities exception, at least 25% of the employees (by headcount and compensation), real and tangible assets and gross income of the linde plc expanded affiliated group must be based, located and derived, respectively, in the country in which linde plc is a tax resident after the merger. the substantial business activities exception is not expected to be satisfied. the section 7874 percentage is currently expected to be less than 60%. however, the calculation of the section 7874 percentage is complex, is calculated based on the facts as of the effective time of the merger, is subject to detailed regulations (the application of which is uncertain in various respects and would be impacted by changes in such regulations) and is subject to factual uncertainties (including fluctuations in the value of praxair shares, and therefore in the value of linde plc shares, as of the effective time of the merger). as a result, the irs could assert that the section 7874 percentage is greater than or equal to 60% and that linde plc therefore is treated for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a u.s. domestic corporation ( i.e. , as a u.s. tax resident). if the irs successfully challenges linde plc's status as a foreign corporation, significant adverse tax consequences would result for linde plc, the combined group and for certain of linde plc's stockholders. linde plc is not currently expected to be treated as a domestic corporation, but it is possible that changes in u.s. federal income tax law could alter that result. transfers of linde plc ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. for the majority of transfers of linde plc shares, there will not be any irish stamp duty. however, irish stamp duty will become payable in respect of certain share transfers occurring after completion of the business combination. a transfer of linde plc shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially ( i.e. through dtc or clearstream) to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares). a transfer of linde plc shares by a seller who holds shares directly ( i.e. not through dtc or clearstream) to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. a shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through dtc/clearstream (or vice versa) without giving rise to irish stamp duty provided that the shareholder has confirmed to linde plc's transfer agent that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares. because of the potential irish stamp duty on transfers of linde plc shares, directly registered praxair shareholders may face disadvantages if they do not open broker accounts and do not transfer their shares into such accounts as soon as possible, and in any event prior to completion of the business combination. any person who wishes to acquire linde plc shares after completion of the business combination may face disadvantages if they do not acquire such shares through dtc or clearstream. changes in tax laws and policy could adversely impact linde plc's financial position or results of operations. linde plc, praxair and linde are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the u.s., germany, ireland, the u.k. and other countries in which linde plc, praxair and linde and their affiliates operate. such tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. under current economic and political conditions, including the referendum in june 2016 in the u.k. in which voters approved an exit from the eu and the ongoing exit process, tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., the u.k. and eu, are subject to significant change. in particular, since linde plc is expected to be treated as u.k. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to u.k. tax-resident companies would directly 10 table of contents affect linde plc. when tax rules change, this may result in a higher tax expense and the need to make higher tax payments. in addition, changes in tax legislation may have a significant impact on linde plc's, praxair's and linde's tax receivables and tax liabilities as well as on their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. moreover, uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict linde plc's, praxair's or linde's opportunities to enforce their respective rights under the law. companies in the combined group will also operate in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. interpretations of these regulations or changes in the tax system might have an adverse impact on the tax liabilities, profitability and business operations of praxair, linde or the combined group. linde plc, praxair, inc. and linde ag and their respective subsidiaries are subject to periodic audits by the tax authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in linde plc's, praxair's and linde's financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made. in the current environment, the u.s. congress, the european union, the organisation for economic co-operation and development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where linde plc and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one area of focus has been base erosion and profit shifting, including situations where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. however, the prospect of any reform with respect to these issues remains highly uncertain. any such changes, among other possible changes in applicable tax rules and regulations, could affect the treatment of linde plc, praxair, linde, or their respective affiliates or shareholders significantly. additionally, on december 22, 2017, tax reform legislation was enacted in the united states. this legislation made significant changes to the u.s. internal revenue code that are are highly complex and unclear and there is limited guidance regarding their application. the overall impact of this legislation also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by u.s. tax authorities. there has been no prior public market for linde plc shares, and the market price of linde plc shares may be volatile. linde plc will list the linde plc shares on the nyse and the frankfurt stock exchange. it is not expected, but cannot be entirely excluded that an active public market for linde plc shares may not develop or be sustained after the completion of the business combination. linde plc cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop or how liquid that market might become. the market price of linde plc shares may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of linde plc shares, regardless of linde plc's actual operating performance. factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of linde plc shares may include, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by linde plc or by any securities analysts that might cover linde plc shares; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes; announcements by linde plc or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of linde plc's operations or lawsuits filed against it; additions or departures of key personnel; and issues or sales of linde plc shares, including sales of shares by its directors and officers or its strategic investors. shareholders of linde plc may lose parts of or their entire investment, if the market price of linde plc shares falls due to one or several of the described factors. any dividend paid in respect of linde plc shares is subject to a number of factors, including the distributions of earnings to linde plc by its subsidiaries, the financial condition and results of operations of the combined group, as well as the distributable reserves of linde plc. although linde plc currently expects to pay dividends, any dividend paid or changes to dividend policy are within the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including distributions of earnings to linde plc by its subsidiaries, the financial condition and results of operations of the combined group, legal requirements, including limitations imposed by irish law, terms of any outstanding shares of preferred stock, restrictions in any debt agreements that limit its ability to pay dividends to shareholders, restrictions in any series of preferred stock and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. as a holding company, linde plc will conduct substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, such 11 table of contents entities will generate substantially all of its operating income and cash flow, and linde plc's ability to pay dividends is limited under irish law to the extent it has distributable reserves. distributable reserves means the accumulated realized profits so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less accumulated realized losses so far as not previously written off in a reduction or a reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made if, at that time, the net assets of linde plc are not, or would not be after giving effect to such distribution or dividend, equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of linde plc's called-up share capital plus undistributable reserves. linde plc's ability to pay dividends in the future is affected by a number of factors, principally on its ability to receive sufficient dividends from its subsidiaries. the ability of such entities to make dividend payments to linde plc depends largely on their financial condition and ability to generate profits. in addition, because linde plc's subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities, they will have no obligation to pay any dividends or to lend or advance to linde plc funds and may be restricted from doing so by contract, including other financing arrangements, charter provisions, other shareholders or the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries in which they operate. additionally, claims of the creditors of linde plc's subsidiaries have priority over any claims that linde plc may have with respect to the assets of its subsidiaries. further, the ability of linde plc to direct dividend payments from linde ag may be limited subject to linde ag becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of linde plc for which there can be no assurance. any delay in implementing the post-completion reorganization could adversely impact the payment of dividends from linde ag to linde plc. linde plc will not have distributable reserves immediately following completion of the business combination. until such time as linde plc creates distributable reserves through dividends from its subsidiaries, the creation of distributable reserves of linde plc (by reducing its share premium) requires the approval of the irish high court and, in connection with seeking such court approval, the approval of praxair shareholders on a non-binding advisory basis was obtained at the special meeting of shareholders of praxair, inc. and approval on a non-binding advisory basis is provided by the linde ag shareholders as part of the offer acceptance to allow for the creation of distributable reserves of linde plc. linde plc is not aware of any reason why the irish high court would not approve the creation of distributable reserves, however, the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the irish high court. in the event that distributable reserves of linde plc are not created in this way, distributions by way of dividends, share repurchases or otherwise will generally not be permitted under irish law until such time as the group has created sufficient distributable reserves in the audited statutory financial statements of linde plc as a result of its business activities. the rights of the shareholders of linde plc and the responsibilities of members of linde plc's board of directors will be governed by irish law and the linde plc constitution, which will differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under delaware or german law and the current organizational documents of praxair, inc. and linde ag. following the completion of the business combination, linde plc's corporate affairs will be governed by the linde plc constitution and the laws governing companies incorporated in ireland. the rights of linde plc shareholders and the responsibilities of members of the linde plc board of directors under the laws of ireland will differ from the rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of a company's board of directors under the laws of delaware and the supervisory board and executive board of a company under german law. irish law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders in irish companies may bring derivative actions and does not afford appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders in the form available under certain circumstances to shareholders of a u.s. company. praxair shareholders and linde ag shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the business combination and will exercise less influence over management of the combined group. after the completion of the business combination, praxair shareholders and linde ag shareholders will own a smaller percentage of linde plc than they currently own of praxair, inc. and linde ag, respectively, because ownership in linde plc shares will be allocated between praxair and linde ag shareholders in accordance with the exchange ratios set forth in the business combination agreement. consequently, praxair shareholders, as a group, will have reduced ownership and voting power in the combined group compared to their current ownership and voting power in praxair, inc., and linde ag shareholders, as a group, will have reduced ownership and voting power in the combined group compared to their current ownership and voting power in linde ag and each, as a group, could exercise less influence over the management and policies of the combined group than they currently have over the management and policies of praxair and linde, respectively. 12 table of contents linde plc shareholders could be diluted in the future if linde plc increases its issued share capital because of the dis-application of statutory preemption rights. in addition, shareholders in certain jurisdictions, including the united states, may not be able to exercise their pre-emption rights even if those rights have not been dis-applied. as a matter of irish law, holders of linde plc shares will have a pre-emption right with respect to any issuance of linde plc shares for cash consideration or the granting of rights to subscribe for linde plc shares for cash consideration, unless such pre-emption right is dis-applied, in whole or in part, either in the linde plc constitution or by resolution of the shareholders of linde plc at a general meeting of shareholders or otherwise. it is intended that the linde plc constitution that will be in effect upon the completion of the business combination will dis-apply the statutory pre-emption rights to the maximum extent permitted by irish law, i.e. , the linde plc board of directors will be permitted to issue up to all of linde plc's authorized but unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis for cash consideration at any stage during the period of five years after the date of completion of the business combination. accordingly, the board of directors will have discretion to issue up to all of linde plc's authorized but unissued share capital for cash consideration without regard to pre-emption rights for a period of five years from the date of completion of the business combination. in addition, even if the dis-application of pre-emption rights contained in the linde plc constitution expires (and is not renewed by shareholders at general meeting) or is terminated by the shareholders of linde plc in a general meeting, due to laws and regulations in certain jurisdictions outside ireland, shareholders in such jurisdictions may not be able to exercise their pre-emption rights unless linde plc takes action to register or otherwise qualify the rights offering under the laws of that jurisdiction. for example, in the united states, u.s. holders of linde plc shares may not be able to exercise pre-emption rights unless a registration statement under the securities act is declared effective with respect to the linde plc shares issuable upon exercise of such rights or an exemption from the u.s. registration requirements is available. if shareholders in such jurisdictions are unable to exercise their pre-emption rights, their ownership interest in linde plc would be diluted. any future issuance of linde plc shares or debt instruments convertible into linde plc shares where pre-emption rights of linde plc shareholders are not available or are excluded would result in the dilution of existing linde plc shareholders and reduce the earnings per linde plc share, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of linde plc shares. u.s. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against linde plc. linde plc is organized under the laws of ireland and substantial portions of its assets will be located outside of the united states. in addition, certain members of the board of directors of linde plc (the linde plc board of directors ) reside outside the united states. as a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the united states upon linde plc or such other persons, or to enforce outside the united states judgments obtained against such persons in u.s. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the united states, rights predicated upon the u.s. federal securities laws. a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the united states would not be automatically enforceable in ireland. there is no treaty between ireland and the united states providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. the following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in ireland: (i) the judgment must be for a definite sum; (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive; and (iii) the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. an irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (a) was obtained by fraud; (b) violated irish public policy; (c) is in breach of natural justice; or (d) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that u.s. investors will be able to enforce against linde plc, any member of its board of directors, the linde ag supervisory board or executive board, or the praxair, inc. board of directors, or any officer of such companies, or any expert named herein who is a resident of a country other than the united states, any judgments obtained in u.s. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, there is doubt as to whether an irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on linde plc, any member of its board of directors, or any officer who is a resident of a country other than the united states, in an original action predicated solely upon the u.s. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in ireland against linde plc or such director or officer, respectively. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk during the period covered by this report, linde plc did not conduct any material activities and therefore did not incur any significant interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk or other relevant market risks. 19 table of contentsrisk factors and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. seasonality linde's business is generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any significant extent. research and development linde's research and development is directed toward development of gas processing, separation and liquefaction technologies, improving distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for these gases. this results in the development of new advanced air separation, hydrogen, synthesis gas, natural gas, adsorption and chemical process technologies as well as the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications. research and development is primarily conducted at pullach, germany, tonawanda, new york, burr ridge, illinois and shanghai, china. patents and trademarks linde owns or licenses a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes. linde's patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. while these patents and licenses are considered important to its individual businesses, linde does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any one particular patent, or patent license, or family of patents. linde also owns a large number of trademarks, of which the "linde" trademark is the most significant. raw materials and energy costs energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. the company mitigates electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass through and tolling arrangements. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where the company conducts business. however, energy availability and price is unpredictable and may pose unforeseen future risks. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. competition linde participates in highly competitive markets in the industrial gases, engineering and healthcare businesses, which are characterized by a mixture of local, regional and global players, all of which exert competitive pressure on the parties. in locations where linde has pipeline networks, which enable the company to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, linde derives a competitive advantage. competitors in the industrial and medical gases industry include global and regional companies such as l'air liquide s.a., air products and chemicals, inc., messer group gmbh, mitsubishi chemical holdings corporation (through taiyo nippon sanso corporation) as well as an extensive number of small to medium size independent industrial gas companies which compete locally as producers or distributors. in addition, a significant portion of the international gases market relates to customer-owned plants. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2019 , linde had 79,886 employees worldwide. linde has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. linde considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory. environment information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned management's discussion and analysis environmental matters in item 7 of this 10-k. 6 table of contents available information the company makes its periodic and current reports available, free of charge, on or through its website, www.linde.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). investors may also access from the company website other investor information such as press releases and presentations. information on the company's website is not incorporated by reference herein. in addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec free of charge at the sec's website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. executive officers the following executive officers have been elected by the board of directors and serve at the pleasure of the board. it is expected that the board will elect officers annually following each annual meeting of shareholders. stephen f. angel, 64, is chief executive officer of linde. prior to that, mr. angel was chairman, president and ceo of praxair, inc. since 2007. angel joined praxair in 2001 as an executive vice president and was named president and chief operating officer in february 2006. prior to joining praxair, angel spent 22 years in a variety of management positions with general electric. angel serves on the board of directors of ppg industries and the u.s.-china business council and is a member of the business council. angel received a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from north carolina state university and an mba from loyola college in baltimore. dr. christian bruch, age 49, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of engineering for linde and is a member of the executive board of linde ag. dr. bruch joined the linde group's gases division in 2004 as a business development manager for airgases. in 2006 he became the head of tonnage business development for air separation projects in europe, the middle east and africa. in 2009 he transferred to the engineering division, where he was responsible for the product line air separation plants. in 2013 he was appointed a member of the board of directors at the engineering division, a position he held until becoming a member of the executive board of linde ag at the beginning of 2015 responsible for the linde engineering division and the corporate &amp; support function technology &amp; innovation. prior to joining the linde group, dr. bruch worked for the swiss institute of technology in z rich and for the rwe group in essen, germany. kelcey e. hoyt, age 50, became the chief accounting officer of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. prior to this, she served as vice president and controller of praxair, inc. effective august 1, 2016. prior to becoming controller, she served as praxair's director of investor relations since 2010. she joined praxair in 2002 and served as director of corporate accounting and sec reporting through 2008, and later served as controller for various divisions within praxair's north american industrial gas business. previously, she had five years of experience in audit at kpmg, llp. sanjiv lamba age 55, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the head of apac. mr. lamba was appointed a member of the executive board of linde ag in 2011, responsible for the asia, pacific segment of the gases division, for global gases businesses helium &amp; rare gases, electronics as well as asia joint venture management. mr. lamba started his career 1989 with boc india in finance where he progressed to become director of finance. he was appointed managing director for boc's india's business in 2001. throughout his years with boc/linde, he has worked in a number of geographies including germany, the uk, singapore and india where he has held numerous roles across the organization. eduardo f. menezes, age 56, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the head of emea. mr. menezes previously served as executive vice president of praxair, inc. since 2012, responsible for praxair europe, praxair mexico, praxair south america and praxair asia. from 2010 to march 2011, he was a vice president of praxair with responsibility for the north american industrial gases business and was named senior vice president in 2011. from 2007 to 2010, he was president of praxair europe. he served as managing director of praxair's business in mexico from 2004 to 2007, as vice president and general manager for praxair distribution, inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as vice president, u.s. west region, for north american industrial gases, from 2000 to 2003. dr. andreas opfermann, 48, became executive vice president of americas and a member of the management committee of linde in november 2019. prior to this, from 2016-2019, he was the regional business unit leader for linde's north european region. dr. opfermann joined linde in 2005 initially in corporate strategy. he has subsequently served as head of innovation management from 2008 to 2010, head of clean energy and innovation management from 2010 to 2014, and head of technology and innovation from 2015 to 2016, responsible for all linde research and development. before joining linde, he held positions at mckinsey &amp; company. 7 table of contents anne k. roby, age 55, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. she is the head of global functions. prior to this, dr. roby served as senior vice president of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014, responsible for global supply systems, r&amp;d, global market development, global operations excellence, global strategic sales, global procurement, sustainability and safety, health and environment. from 2011to 2013, she served as president of praxair asia, responsible for praxair's industrial gases business in china, india, south korea and thailand as well as the electronics market globally. in 2010, dr. roby became president of praxair electronics, after having served as vice president, global sales, for praxair from 2009 to 2010. prior to this, she was vice president of the praxair u.s. south region from 2006 to 2009. dr. roby joined praxair in 1991 as a development associate in the company's r&amp;d organization and was promoted to other positions of increasing responsibility. matt j. white, age 47, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the chief financial officer for linde. he previously served as the senior vice president and chief financial officer of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014. prior to this, mr. white was president of praxair canada from 2011-2014. he joined praxair in 2004 as finance director for the company's largest business unit, north american industrial gases. in 2008, he became vice president and controller of praxair, inc., then was named vice president and treasurer in 2010. before joining praxair, white was vice president, finance, at fisher scientific and before that he held various financial positions, including group controller, at gentek, a manufacturing and performance chemicals company. 8 table of contents item 1a. risk factors due to the size and geographic reach of the company's operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company's control, could materially affect the company's future operations and financial performance. management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company: the company may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the business combination. the company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination between praxair, inc. and linde ag, which was completed on october 31, 2018. the success of the business combination will depend on, among other things, the company's ability to combine praxair, inc.'s and linde ag's businesses in a manner that facilitates growth and realizes the anticipated annual synergies and cost reductions without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. the actual integration will continue to involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. difficulties in the integration of the businesses, which may result in significant costs and delays, include: managing a significantly larger combined group; aligning and executing the strategy of the company; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts in geographically separate organizations; coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and aligning insurance coverage; coordinating accounting, reporting, information technology, communications, administration and other systems; addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; the company being subject to irish laws and regulations and legal action in ireland; coordinating the compliance program and uniform financial reporting, information technology and other standards, controls, procedures and policies; the implementation, ultimate impact and outcome of post-completion reorganization transactions, which may be delayed; unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the business combination or the combined businesses; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; and effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. these and other factors could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings. the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the business combination may also adversely affect the company's relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom praxair, inc. and linde ag have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses could harm the reputation of the company. if the company is not able to successfully integrate the businesses of praxair, inc. and linde ag in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. weakening economic conditions in markets in which linde does business may adversely impact its financial results and/or cash flows. linde serves a diverse group of industries across more than 100 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. however, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for linde's products and impair the ability of its customers to satisfy their obligations to linde, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. for example, global political and economic uncertainty could reduce investment activities of linde's customers, which could adversely affect linde's business. in addition, many of linde's customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and energy industries. downturns in these industries may adversely impact linde during these cycles. additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of linde's manufacturing capacity which may require it to 9 table of contents recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property. increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability. energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. linde attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability, which could negatively impact linde's financial condition or results of operations. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where linde conducts business. however, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. where feasible, linde sources several of these raw materials, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. in addition, linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. a disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact linde's ability to meet contractual supply commitments. linde's international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations. linde has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, trade conflicts and the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. these events could have an adverse effect on the international operations of linde in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. for example, linde has a meaningful presence in the u.k. and the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu has continued to cause, and may in the future cause, political and economic uncertainty, which could have an adverse impact on the markets which linde supplies. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect linde's results. because a significant portion of linde's revenue is denominated in currencies other than its reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of assets and liabilities and related equity. although the company from time to time utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures, its efforts to minimize currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect linde's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. macroeconomic factors may impact linde's ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact linde's financial results and/or cash flows. volatility and disruption in the u.s., european and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for linde to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. in addition, linde's borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on its performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. a decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. 10 table of contents an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the company's financial results. as of december 31, 2019 , the net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $27 billion and $2 billion , respectively, primarily as a result of the business combination and the related acquisition method of accounting applied to linde ag. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the company periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on linde's results of operations in the periods recognized. catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of linde and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. the occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods; health epidemics; and acts of war or terrorism, could disrupt or delay linde's ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose linde to third-party liability claims. in addition, such events could impact linde's customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. linde evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts, makes investments in suitably resilient design and technology, and conducts regular reviews of the business risks with management. despite these steps, however, these situations are outside linde's control and may have a significant adverse impact on its financial results. the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact linde's business. if linde fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, it may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. linde is dependent upon a highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. much of linde's competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of key personnel regarding marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. the inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on linde's financial results. if linde fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy linde's products and results of operations could be adversely affected. linde's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases, the design and construction of plants and toward developing new markets and applications for the use of industrial and process gases. this results in the introduction of new applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. as a result of these efforts, linde develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which linde operates. these technologies help linde to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform to grow its business. if linde's research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if linde does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected. risks related to pension benefit plans may adversely impact linde's results of operations and cash flows. pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to linde's plans. linde utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. in particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. 11 table of contents operational risks may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. linde's operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. insufficient or excess capacity threatens linde's ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose linde to liabilities related to contract commitments. operating results are also dependent on linde's ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. failure to do so may expose linde's business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation. also inherent in the management of linde's production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact linde's financial results. linde may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. linde relies on information technology systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. these systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. linde has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in business interruption or malfunction or regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on linde's operations, reputation and financial results. the inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact linde's financial position and results of operations. in addition to the business combination, linde has evaluated and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. although historically linde has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where linde may face risks include: the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization; the need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products; failure to achieve targeted synergies and cost reductions; and inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies. foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned herein, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. also, the anticipated benefit of potential future acquisitions may not materialize. future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact linde's financial results. 12 table of contents linde is subject to a variety of international laws and government regulations and changes in, or failure to comply with, these laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the company's business, financial position and results of operations. linde is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others: environmental protection, including climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies; domestic and international tax laws and currency controls; safety; securities laws applicable in the united states, the european union, germany, ireland, and other jurisdictions; trade and import/export restrictions, as well as economic sanctions laws; antitrust matters; data protection; global anti-bribery laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act; and healthcare regulations. changes in these or other regulatory areas, such as evolving environmental legislation in china, may impact linde's profitability and may give rise to new or increased compliance risks: it may become more complex and costly to ensure compliance, and the level of sanctions in the event of non-compliance may rise. such changes may also restrict linde's ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions, cancellation of marketing rights or restrictions on participation in, or even exclusion from, public tender proceedings, all of which could have a material adverse impact on linde's financial results and/or reputation. doing business globally requires linde to comply with anti-corruption, trade, compliance and economic sanctions and similar laws, and to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure that its employees and other intermediaries comply with the applicable restrictions. these restrictions include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products, services and any other economic resources to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. compliance with these restrictions requires, among other things, screening of business partners. despite its commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, the company cannot ensure that its policies and procedures will always protect it from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by employees or agents under the applicable laws. if linde fails to comply with laws governing the conduct of international operations, linde may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially adversely affect its reputation, business and results of operations. the outcome of litigation or governmental investigations may adversely impact the company's business or results of operations. linde's subsidiaries are party to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising in the ordinary course of business. adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect linde's ability to conduct business. linde and its subsidiaries may in the future become subject to further claims and litigation, which is impossible to predict. the litigation and other claims linde faces are subject to inherent uncertainties. legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements might give rise to expenses which are not covered, or are not fully covered, by insurance benefits and may also lead to negative publicity and reputational damage. an unfavorable outcome or determination could cause a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations. potential product defects or inadequate customer care may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. risks associated with products and services may result in potential liability claims, the loss of customers or damage to linde's reputation. principal possible causes of risks associated with products and services are product defects or an inadequate level of customer care when linde is providing services. linde is exposed to legal risks relating to product liability in the countries where it operates, including countries such as the united states, where legal risks (in particular through class actions) have historically been more significant than in other countries. the outcome of any pending or future products and services proceedings or investigations cannot be predicted and legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements may give rise to significant losses, costs and expenses. the manufacturing and sale of products as well as the construction of plants by linde may give rise to risks associated with the production, filling, storage, handling and transport of raw materials, goods or waste. industrial gases are 13 table of contents potentially hazardous substances and medical gases and the related healthcare services must comply with the relevant specifications in order to not adversely affect the health of patients treated with them. linde's products and services, if defective or not handled or performed appropriately, may lead to personal injuries, business interruptions, environmental damages or other significant damages, which may result, among other consequences, in liability, losses, monetary penalties or compensation payments, environmental clean-up costs or other costs and expenses, exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for future development of the business and loss of reputation. all these consequences could have a material adverse effect on linde's business and results of operations. u.s. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against linde. linde is organized under the laws of ireland and substantial portions of its assets will be located outside of the united states. in addition, certain directors and officers of linde and its subsidiaries reside outside the united states. as a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the united states upon linde or such persons, or to enforce outside the united states judgments obtained against such persons in u.s. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the united states, rights predicated upon the u.s. federal securities laws. a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the united states based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in ireland. there is no treaty between ireland and the united states providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. the following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in ireland (i) the judgment must be for a definite sum, (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive; and (iii) the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. an irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (i) was obtained by fraud; (ii) violated irish public policy; (iii) is in breach of natural justice; or (iv) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. in addition, there is doubt as to whether an irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on linde or such persons in an original action predicated solely upon the u.s. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in ireland against linde or such member, officer or expert, respectively. changes in tax laws or policy could adversely impact the company's financial position or results of operations. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the u.s., germany, ireland, the u.k. and other countries in which they operate. those tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. under current economic and political conditions, including the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu, tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., the u.k. and the eu, are subject to significant change. in particular, since linde is currently treated as u.k. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to u.k. tax-resident companies would directly affect linde. a change in linde's tax residency could have a negative effect on the company's future profitability and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. if linde ceases to be resident in the united kingdom and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to united kingdom exit charges, and/or could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction. if linde were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to duplicative taxation. furthermore, although linde is incorporated in ireland and is not expected to be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the irs could disagree with this result or that changes in u.s. federal income tax law could alter this result. if the irs successfully asserted such a position or the law were to change, significant adverse tax consequences may result for linde, the company and linde's shareholders. when tax rules change, this may result in a higher tax expense and the need to make higher tax payments. in addition, changes in tax legislation may have a significant impact on linde's and its subsidiaries' tax receivables and tax liabilities as well as on their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities and uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict their opportunities to enforce their respective rights under the law. linde also operates in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. interpretations of these regulations or changes in the tax system might have an adverse impact on the tax liabilities, profitability and business operations of 14 table of contents linde. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic audits by the tax authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in linde's or its subsidiaries' financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. seasonality linde's business is generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any significant extent. research and development linde's research and development is directed toward development of gas processing, separation and liquefaction technologies, improving distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for these gases. this results in the development of new advanced air separation, hydrogen, synthesis gas, natural gas, adsorption and chemical process technologies as well as the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications. research and development is primarily conducted at pullach, germany, tonawanda, new york, burr ridge, illinois and shanghai, china. patents and trademarks linde owns or licenses a large number of patents that relate to a wide variety of products and processes. linde's patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. while these patents and licenses are considered important to its individual businesses, linde does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any one particular patent, or patent license, or family of patents. linde also owns a large number of trademarks, of which the "linde" trademark is the most significant. raw materials and energy costs energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. the company mitigates electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass through and tolling arrangements. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where the company conducts business. however, energy availability and price is unpredictable and may pose unforeseen future risks. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. competition linde participates in highly competitive markets in the industrial gases, engineering and healthcare businesses, which are characterized by a mixture of local, regional and global players, all of which exert competitive pressure on the parties. in locations where linde has pipeline networks, which enable the company to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, linde derives a competitive advantage. competitors in the industrial and medical gases industry include global and regional companies such as l'air liquide s.a., air products and chemicals, inc., messer group gmbh, mitsubishi chemical holdings corporation (through taiyo nippon sanso corporation) as well as an extensive number of small to medium size independent industrial gas companies which compete locally as producers or distributors. in addition, a significant portion of the international gases market relates to customer-owned plants. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2019 , linde had 79,886 employees worldwide. linde has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. linde considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory. environment information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned management's discussion and analysis environmental matters in item 7 of this 10-k. 6 table of contents available information the company makes its periodic and current reports available, free of charge, on or through its website, www.linde.com, as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). investors may also access from the company website other investor information such as press releases and presentations. information on the company's website is not incorporated by reference herein. in addition, the public may read and copy any materials filed with the sec free of charge at the sec's website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. executive officers the following executive officers have been elected by the board of directors and serve at the pleasure of the board. it is expected that the board will elect officers annually following each annual meeting of shareholders. stephen f. angel, 64, is chief executive officer of linde. prior to that, mr. angel was chairman, president and ceo of praxair, inc. since 2007. angel joined praxair in 2001 as an executive vice president and was named president and chief operating officer in february 2006. prior to joining praxair, angel spent 22 years in a variety of management positions with general electric. angel serves on the board of directors of ppg industries and the u.s.-china business council and is a member of the business council. angel received a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from north carolina state university and an mba from loyola college in baltimore. dr. christian bruch, age 49, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is also the head of engineering for linde and is a member of the executive board of linde ag. dr. bruch joined the linde group's gases division in 2004 as a business development manager for airgases. in 2006 he became the head of tonnage business development for air separation projects in europe, the middle east and africa. in 2009 he transferred to the engineering division, where he was responsible for the product line air separation plants. in 2013 he was appointed a member of the board of directors at the engineering division, a position he held until becoming a member of the executive board of linde ag at the beginning of 2015 responsible for the linde engineering division and the corporate &amp; support function technology &amp; innovation. prior to joining the linde group, dr. bruch worked for the swiss institute of technology in z rich and for the rwe group in essen, germany. kelcey e. hoyt, age 50, became the chief accounting officer of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. prior to this, she served as vice president and controller of praxair, inc. effective august 1, 2016. prior to becoming controller, she served as praxair's director of investor relations since 2010. she joined praxair in 2002 and served as director of corporate accounting and sec reporting through 2008, and later served as controller for various divisions within praxair's north american industrial gas business. previously, she had five years of experience in audit at kpmg, llp. sanjiv lamba age 55, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the head of apac. mr. lamba was appointed a member of the executive board of linde ag in 2011, responsible for the asia, pacific segment of the gases division, for global gases businesses helium &amp; rare gases, electronics as well as asia joint venture management. mr. lamba started his career 1989 with boc india in finance where he progressed to become director of finance. he was appointed managing director for boc's india's business in 2001. throughout his years with boc/linde, he has worked in a number of geographies including germany, the uk, singapore and india where he has held numerous roles across the organization. eduardo f. menezes, age 56, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the head of emea. mr. menezes previously served as executive vice president of praxair, inc. since 2012, responsible for praxair europe, praxair mexico, praxair south america and praxair asia. from 2010 to march 2011, he was a vice president of praxair with responsibility for the north american industrial gases business and was named senior vice president in 2011. from 2007 to 2010, he was president of praxair europe. he served as managing director of praxair's business in mexico from 2004 to 2007, as vice president and general manager for praxair distribution, inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as vice president, u.s. west region, for north american industrial gases, from 2000 to 2003. dr. andreas opfermann, 48, became executive vice president of americas and a member of the management committee of linde in november 2019. prior to this, from 2016-2019, he was the regional business unit leader for linde's north european region. dr. opfermann joined linde in 2005 initially in corporate strategy. he has subsequently served as head of innovation management from 2008 to 2010, head of clean energy and innovation management from 2010 to 2014, and head of technology and innovation from 2015 to 2016, responsible for all linde research and development. before joining linde, he held positions at mckinsey &amp; company. 7 table of contents anne k. roby, age 55, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. she is the head of global functions. prior to this, dr. roby served as senior vice president of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014, responsible for global supply systems, r&amp;d, global market development, global operations excellence, global strategic sales, global procurement, sustainability and safety, health and environment. from 2011to 2013, she served as president of praxair asia, responsible for praxair's industrial gases business in china, india, south korea and thailand as well as the electronics market globally. in 2010, dr. roby became president of praxair electronics, after having served as vice president, global sales, for praxair from 2009 to 2010. prior to this, she was vice president of the praxair u.s. south region from 2006 to 2009. dr. roby joined praxair in 1991 as a development associate in the company's r&amp;d organization and was promoted to other positions of increasing responsibility. matt j. white, age 47, became an executive officer and a member of the management committee of linde in connection with the business combination in october 2018. he is the chief financial officer for linde. he previously served as the senior vice president and chief financial officer of praxair, inc. since january 1, 2014. prior to this, mr. white was president of praxair canada from 2011-2014. he joined praxair in 2004 as finance director for the company's largest business unit, north american industrial gases. in 2008, he became vice president and controller of praxair, inc., then was named vice president and treasurer in 2010. before joining praxair, white was vice president, finance, at fisher scientific and before that he held various financial positions, including group controller, at gentek, a manufacturing and performance chemicals company. 8 table of contents item 1a. risk factors due to the size and geographic reach of the company's operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company's control, could materially affect the company's future operations and financial performance. management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company: the company may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the business combination. the company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination between praxair, inc. and linde ag, which was completed on october 31, 2018. the success of the business combination will depend on, among other things, the company's ability to combine praxair, inc.'s and linde ag's businesses in a manner that facilitates growth and realizes the anticipated annual synergies and cost reductions without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. the actual integration will continue to involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. difficulties in the integration of the businesses, which may result in significant costs and delays, include: managing a significantly larger combined group; aligning and executing the strategy of the company; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts in geographically separate organizations; coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and aligning insurance coverage; coordinating accounting, reporting, information technology, communications, administration and other systems; addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; the company being subject to irish laws and regulations and legal action in ireland; coordinating the compliance program and uniform financial reporting, information technology and other standards, controls, procedures and policies; the implementation, ultimate impact and outcome of post-completion reorganization transactions, which may be delayed; unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the business combination or the combined businesses; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; and effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. these and other factors could result in increased costs and diversion of management's time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings. the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the business combination may also adversely affect the company's relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom praxair, inc. and linde ag have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses could harm the reputation of the company. if the company is not able to successfully integrate the businesses of praxair, inc. and linde ag in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. weakening economic conditions in markets in which linde does business may adversely impact its financial results and/or cash flows. linde serves a diverse group of industries across more than 100 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. however, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for linde's products and impair the ability of its customers to satisfy their obligations to linde, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. for example, global political and economic uncertainty could reduce investment activities of linde's customers, which could adversely affect linde's business. in addition, many of linde's customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and energy industries. downturns in these industries may adversely impact linde during these cycles. additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of linde's manufacturing capacity which may require it to 9 table of contents recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property. increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability. energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. most of linde's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. linde attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability, which could negatively impact linde's financial condition or results of operations. the supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where linde conducts business. however, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk. for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. where feasible, linde sources several of these raw materials, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. in addition, linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. a disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact linde's ability to meet contractual supply commitments. linde's international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations. linde has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, trade conflicts and the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. these events could have an adverse effect on the international operations of linde in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. for example, linde has a meaningful presence in the u.k. and the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu has continued to cause, and may in the future cause, political and economic uncertainty, which could have an adverse impact on the markets which linde supplies. currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect linde's results. because a significant portion of linde's revenue is denominated in currencies other than its reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of assets and liabilities and related equity. although the company from time to time utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures, its efforts to minimize currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect linde's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. macroeconomic factors may impact linde's ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact linde's financial results and/or cash flows. volatility and disruption in the u.s., european and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for linde to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. in addition, linde's borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on its performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. a decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. 10 table of contents an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the company's financial results. as of december 31, 2019 , the net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $27 billion and $2 billion , respectively, primarily as a result of the business combination and the related acquisition method of accounting applied to linde ag. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the company periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on linde's results of operations in the periods recognized. catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of linde and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. the occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods; health epidemics; and acts of war or terrorism, could disrupt or delay linde's ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose linde to third-party liability claims. in addition, such events could impact linde's customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. linde evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts, makes investments in suitably resilient design and technology, and conducts regular reviews of the business risks with management. despite these steps, however, these situations are outside linde's control and may have a significant adverse impact on its financial results. the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact linde's business. if linde fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, it may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. linde is dependent upon a highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. much of linde's competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of key personnel regarding marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. the inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on linde's financial results. if linde fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy linde's products and results of operations could be adversely affected. linde's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases, the design and construction of plants and toward developing new markets and applications for the use of industrial and process gases. this results in the introduction of new applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. as a result of these efforts, linde develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which linde operates. these technologies help linde to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform to grow its business. if linde's research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if linde does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected. risks related to pension benefit plans may adversely impact linde's results of operations and cash flows. pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to linde's plans. linde utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. in particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. 11 table of contents operational risks may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. linde's operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. insufficient or excess capacity threatens linde's ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose linde to liabilities related to contract commitments. operating results are also dependent on linde's ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. failure to do so may expose linde's business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation. also inherent in the management of linde's production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact linde's financial results. linde may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. linde relies on information technology systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. these systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. linde has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in business interruption or malfunction or regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on linde's operations, reputation and financial results. the inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact linde's financial position and results of operations. in addition to the business combination, linde has evaluated and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. although historically linde has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where linde may face risks include: the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization; the need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products; failure to achieve targeted synergies and cost reductions; and inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies. foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned herein, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. also, the anticipated benefit of potential future acquisitions may not materialize. future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact linde's financial results. 12 table of contents linde is subject to a variety of international laws and government regulations and changes in, or failure to comply with, these laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the company's business, financial position and results of operations. linde is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others: environmental protection, including climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies; domestic and international tax laws and currency controls; safety; securities laws applicable in the united states, the european union, germany, ireland, and other jurisdictions; trade and import/export restrictions, as well as economic sanctions laws; antitrust matters; data protection; global anti-bribery laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act; and healthcare regulations. changes in these or other regulatory areas, such as evolving environmental legislation in china, may impact linde's profitability and may give rise to new or increased compliance risks: it may become more complex and costly to ensure compliance, and the level of sanctions in the event of non-compliance may rise. such changes may also restrict linde's ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions, cancellation of marketing rights or restrictions on participation in, or even exclusion from, public tender proceedings, all of which could have a material adverse impact on linde's financial results and/or reputation. doing business globally requires linde to comply with anti-corruption, trade, compliance and economic sanctions and similar laws, and to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure that its employees and other intermediaries comply with the applicable restrictions. these restrictions include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products, services and any other economic resources to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. compliance with these restrictions requires, among other things, screening of business partners. despite its commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, the company cannot ensure that its policies and procedures will always protect it from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by employees or agents under the applicable laws. if linde fails to comply with laws governing the conduct of international operations, linde may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially adversely affect its reputation, business and results of operations. the outcome of litigation or governmental investigations may adversely impact the company's business or results of operations. linde's subsidiaries are party to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising in the ordinary course of business. adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect linde's ability to conduct business. linde and its subsidiaries may in the future become subject to further claims and litigation, which is impossible to predict. the litigation and other claims linde faces are subject to inherent uncertainties. legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements might give rise to expenses which are not covered, or are not fully covered, by insurance benefits and may also lead to negative publicity and reputational damage. an unfavorable outcome or determination could cause a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations. potential product defects or inadequate customer care may adversely impact linde's business or results of operations. risks associated with products and services may result in potential liability claims, the loss of customers or damage to linde's reputation. principal possible causes of risks associated with products and services are product defects or an inadequate level of customer care when linde is providing services. linde is exposed to legal risks relating to product liability in the countries where it operates, including countries such as the united states, where legal risks (in particular through class actions) have historically been more significant than in other countries. the outcome of any pending or future products and services proceedings or investigations cannot be predicted and legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements may give rise to significant losses, costs and expenses. the manufacturing and sale of products as well as the construction of plants by linde may give rise to risks associated with the production, filling, storage, handling and transport of raw materials, goods or waste. industrial gases are 13 table of contents potentially hazardous substances and medical gases and the related healthcare services must comply with the relevant specifications in order to not adversely affect the health of patients treated with them. linde's products and services, if defective or not handled or performed appropriately, may lead to personal injuries, business interruptions, environmental damages or other significant damages, which may result, among other consequences, in liability, losses, monetary penalties or compensation payments, environmental clean-up costs or other costs and expenses, exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for future development of the business and loss of reputation. all these consequences could have a material adverse effect on linde's business and results of operations. u.s. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against linde. linde is organized under the laws of ireland and substantial portions of its assets will be located outside of the united states. in addition, certain directors and officers of linde and its subsidiaries reside outside the united states. as a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the united states upon linde or such persons, or to enforce outside the united states judgments obtained against such persons in u.s. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the united states, rights predicated upon the u.s. federal securities laws. a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the united states based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in ireland. there is no treaty between ireland and the united states providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. the following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in ireland (i) the judgment must be for a definite sum, (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive; and (iii) the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. an irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (i) was obtained by fraud; (ii) violated irish public policy; (iii) is in breach of natural justice; or (iv) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. in addition, there is doubt as to whether an irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on linde or such persons in an original action predicated solely upon the u.s. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in ireland against linde or such member, officer or expert, respectively. changes in tax laws or policy could adversely impact the company's financial position or results of operations. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the u.s., germany, ireland, the u.k. and other countries in which they operate. those tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. under current economic and political conditions, including the u.k.'s ongoing exit process from the eu, tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., the u.k. and the eu, are subject to significant change. in particular, since linde is currently treated as u.k. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to u.k. tax-resident companies would directly affect linde. a change in linde's tax residency could have a negative effect on the company's future profitability and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. if linde ceases to be resident in the united kingdom and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to united kingdom exit charges, and/or could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction. if linde were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to duplicative taxation. furthermore, although linde is incorporated in ireland and is not expected to be treated as a domestic corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the irs could disagree with this result or that changes in u.s. federal income tax law could alter this result. if the irs successfully asserted such a position or the law were to change, significant adverse tax consequences may result for linde, the company and linde's shareholders. when tax rules change, this may result in a higher tax expense and the need to make higher tax payments. in addition, changes in tax legislation may have a significant impact on linde's and its subsidiaries' tax receivables and tax liabilities as well as on their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities and uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict their opportunities to enforce their respective rights under the law. linde also operates in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. interpretations of these regulations or changes in the tax system might have an adverse impact on the tax liabilities, profitability and business operations of 14 table of contents linde. linde and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic audits by the tax authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in linde's or its subsidiaries' financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made. 15 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments linde has received no written sec staff comments regarding any of its exchange act reports which remain unresolved. item 2. properties linde plc's principal executive offices are located in owned office space in guildford, united kingdom. linde also owns principal administrative office space in danbury, connecticut and houston, texas, united states; pullach, germany; and singapore. due to the nature of linde's industrial gas products, it is generally uneconomical to transport them distances greater than a few hundred miles from the production facility. as a result, linde operates a significant number of production facilities spread globally throughout a number of geographic regions. the following is a description of production facilities for linde by segment. no significant portion of these assets was leased at december 31, 2019 . generally, these facilities are fully utilized and are sufficient to meet the company's manufacturing needs. americas the americas segment operates production facilities primarily in the u.s., canada, mexico and brazil, approximately 350 of which are mainly cryogenic air separation plants, hydrogen plants and carbon dioxide plants. there are five major pipeline complexes in north america located in northern indiana, houston, along the gulf coast of texas, detroit and louisiana. many of the south american plants support one pipeline complex in southern brazil. also located throughout the americas are noncryogenic air separation plants, packaged gas facilities and other smaller plant facilities. emea the emea segment has production facilities primarily in italy, spain, germany, the benelux region, the united kingdom, scandinavia and russia which include approximately 230 cryogenic air separation plants and carbon dioxide plants. also located throughout europe are noncryogenic air separation plants, packaged gas facilities and other smaller plant facilities. apac the apac segment has production facilities located primarily in china, korea, india and thailand, approximately 230 of which are cryogenic air separation plants and carbon dioxide plants. also located throughout asia are noncryogenic air separation plants, hydrogen, packaged gas and other production facilities. engineering the linde engineering business designs and constructs turnkey process plants for third-party customers as well as for the linde gases businesses in many locations worldwide, such as olefin plants, natural gas plants, air separation plants, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants. plant components are produced in owned factories in pullach and tacherting, germany; hesinque, france; oklahoma, united states; and dalian, china. item 3. legal proceedings information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section captioned notes to consolidated financial statements 19. commitments and contingencies in item 8 of this 10-k. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable 16 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities linde plc shares trade on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) and the frankfurt stock exchange ( fse ) under the ticker symbol lin . at december 31, 2019 there were 9,322 shareholders of record. purchases of equity securities certain information regarding purchases made by or on behalf of the company or any affiliated purchaser (as defined in rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended) of its ordinary shares during the three months ended december 31, 2019 is provided below: period total number of shares purchased (thousands) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced program (1) (thousands) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program (2) (millions) october 2019 716 $ 191.19 716 $ 4,322 november 2019 1,039 $ 205.74 1,039 $ 4,108 december 2019 1,896 $ 207.31 1,896 $ 3,715 fourth quarter 2019 3,651 $ 203.70 3,651 $ 3,715 ________________________ (1) on january 22, 2019 the company's board of directors approved the repurchase of $6.0 billion of its ordinary shares ("2019 program") which could take place from time to time on the open market (and could include the use of 10b5-1 trading plans), subject to market and business conditions. the 2019 program has a maximum repurchase amount of 15% of outstanding shares and a stated expiration date of february 1, 2021. (2) as of december 31, 2019, the company repurchased $2.3 billion of its ordinary shares pursuant to the 2019 program, leaving an additional $3.7 billion authorized. 17 table of contents peer performance table the graph below compares the most recent five-year cumulative returns of the common stock of praxair, the company's predecessor, through october 31, 2018 and linde's ordinary shares from october 31, 2018 through december 31, 2019 with those of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index ("spx") and the s5 materials index ("s5matr") which covers 22 companies, including linde. the figures assume an initial investment of $100 on december 31, 2014 and that all dividends have been reinvested. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 lin $100 $79 $90 $119 $120 $164 spx $100 $99 $109 $130 $122 $157 s5matr $100 $90 $102 $124 $104 $126 18 table of contents item 6. selected financial data five-year financial summary (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) the year ended december 31, 2019 reflects the results of both praxair and linde ag for the entire year. the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018 (the merger date), including the impacts of purchase accounting (see notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the historical periods prior to 2018 reflect the results of praxair. year ended december 31, 2019(a) 2018(a) 2017(a) 2016(a) 2015(a) from the consolidated statements of income sales $ 28,228 $ 14,836 $ 11,358 $ 10,469 $ 10,710 cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 16,644 9,020 6,382 5,790 5,852 selling, general and administrative 3,457 1,629 1,207 1,145 1,152 depreciation and amortization 4,675 1,830 1,184 1,122 1,106 research and development 184 113 93 92 93 cost reduction programs and other charges 567 309 52 96 165 net gain on sale of businesses 164 3,294 other income (expenses) net 68 18 4 23 28 operating profit 2,933 5,247 2,444 2,247 2,370 interest expense net 38 202 161 190 161 net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost (32 ) (4 ) (4 ) 9 49 income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity investments 2,927 5,049 2,287 2,048 2,160 income taxes on continuing operations 769 817 1,026 551 612 income from continuing operations before equity investments 2,158 4,232 1,261 1,497 1,548 income from equity investments 114 56 47 41 43 income from continuing operations (including noncontrolling interests) 2,272 4,288 1,308 1,538 1,591 noncontrolling interests from continuing operations (89 ) (15 ) (61 ) (38 ) (44 ) income from continuing operations $ 2,183 $ 4,273 $ 1,247 $ 1,500 $ 1,547 per share data linde plc shareholders basic earnings per share from continuing operations $ 4.03 $ 12.93 $ 4.36 $ 5.25 $ 5.39 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 4.00 $ 12.79 $ 4.32 $ 5.21 $ 5.35 cash dividends per share $ 3.50 $ 3.30 $ 3.15 $ 3.00 $ 2.86 weighted average shares outstanding (000's) (b) basic shares outstanding 541,094 330,401 286,261 285,677 287,005 diluted shares outstanding 545,170 334,127 289,114 287,757 289,055 other information and ratios total assets $ 86,612 $ 93,386 $ 20,436 $ 19,332 $ 18,319 total debt $ 13,956 $ 15,296 $ 9,000 $ 9,515 $ 9,231 cash flow from operations $ 6,119 $ 3,654 $ 3,041 $ 2,789 $ 2,695 net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ 1,189 $ 5,363 $ (1,314 ) $ (1,770 ) $ (1,303 ) net cash used for financing activities $ (8,997 ) $ (4,998 ) $ (1,656 ) $ (659 ) $ (1,310 ) capital expenditures $ 3,682 $ 1,883 $ 1,311 $ 1,465 $ 1,541 shares outstanding (000's) 534,381 547,242 286,777 284,901 284,879 number of employees 79,886 80,820 26,461 26,498 26,657 (a) amounts for 2019 include: (i) charges of $567 million for cost reduction programs and other charges primarily related to the merger and synergies, (ii) pension settlement charges of $97 million related to lump sum benefit payments made from pension plans, (iii) a net gain on sale of businesses of $164 million and (iv) the purchase accounting impacts of the merger of $1,952 million. 19 table of contents amounts for 2018 include: (i) charges of $309 million for transaction costs and other charges primarily related to the merger, (ii) pension settlement charges of $14 million related to lump sum benefit payments made from pension plans, (iii) income tax benefit, net of $17 million due to u.s. tax cuts and jobs act and other tax charges, (iv) a net gain on sale of businesses of $3,294 million, (v) bond redemption costs of $26 million, and (vi) the purchase accounting impacts of the merger of $714 million. amounts for 2017 include: (i) charges of $52 million for transaction costs related to the merger, (ii) a pension settlement charge of $2 million related to lump sum benefit payments made from an international pension plan, and (iii) income tax charges, net of $394 million due to u.s. tax cuts and jobs act. amounts for 2016 include: (i) a $16 million charge to interest expense related to the redemption of the $325 million 5.20% notes due 2017, (ii) a pre tax pension settlement charge of $4 million related to lump sum benefit payments made from the u.s. supplemental pension plan, and (iii) pre tax charges of $96 million primarily related to cost reduction actions. amounts for 2015 include: (i) a pre-tax charge of $165 million related to the cost reduction program and other charges; and (ii) a pre-tax charge of $7 million related to a pension settlement. see notes 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 13 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. (b) as a result of the merger, share amounts for the year ended december 31, 2018 reflect the weighted averaging effect of praxair shares outstanding prior to october 31, 2018 and linde shares outstanding from october 31, 2018 through december 31, 2018. 20 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion of the company's financial condition and results of operations should be read together with its consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. page merger of praxair, inc. and linde ag 21 business overview 23 executive summary financial results &amp; outlook 24 consolidated results and other information 25 segment discussion 33 liquidity, capital resources and other financial data 43 contractual obligations 47 off-balance sheet arrangements 48 critical accounting policies 48 new accounting standards 51 fair value measurements 51 supplemental pro forma income statement information 52 non-gaap financial measures 56 merger of praxair, inc. and linde ag linde plc ("linde") is a public limited company formed under the laws of ireland in 2017 in accordance with the requirements of the business combination agreement between praxair, inc. ("praxair") and linde aktiengesellschaft ("linde ag"). on october 31, 2018 praxair and linde ag combined their respective businesses through an all-stock transaction, and became subsidiaries of linde plc (collectively referred to as the business combination or "merger"). the business combination of praxair and linde ag has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting under the provisions of financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) accounting standards codification 805, business combinations, with praxair representing the accounting acquirer under this guidance. accordingly, the historical financial statements of praxair for the periods prior to the merger are considered to be the historical financial statements of linde. the results of linde ag are included in linde's consolidated results from the merger date forward. the linde shares trade on the new york stock exchange and the frankfurt stock exchange under the ticker symbol lin . see notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. in connection with the business combination, the company, praxair and linde ag, entered into various agreements with regulatory authorities to satisfy anti-trust requirements to secure approval to consummate the business combination. these agreements required the sale of the majority of praxair's european businesses (completed on december 3, 2018), a significant portion of linde ag's americas business (completed on march 1, 2019), select assets of linde ag's south korean industrial gases business (completed april 30, 2019), select assets of praxair's indian industrial gases business (completed july 12, 2019), select assets of linde ag's indian industrial gases business (completed december 16, 2019) as well as certain divestitures of other praxair and linde ag businesses in asia that are currently expected to be sold in 2020 (collectively, the merger-related divestitures ). in the consolidated financial statements included in item 8, praxair's merger-related divestitures are included in the results of operations until sold and linde ag's merger-related divestitures are accounted for as discontinued operations. see notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 for additional information relating to merger-related divestitures. additionally, to obtain merger approval in the united states linde, praxair and linde ag entered into an agreement with the u.s. federal trade commission dated october 1, 2018 ( hold separate order or hso ). under the hso, the company, praxair and linde ag agreed to continue to operate linde ag and praxair as independent, ongoing, economically viable, competitive businesses held separate, distinct, and apart from each other's operations; and not coordinate any aspect of their operations until certain divestitures in the united states were completed. accordingly, linde had accounted for linde ag as a separate segment for 2018 reporting purposes effective with the merger date. prior to the merger date, the company's linde ag segment did not exist. since the ftc hold separate order restrictions were lifted effective march 1, 2019, the company subsequently implemented a new segment structure as follows: americas; emea 21 table of contents (europe/middle east/africa); apac (asia/south pacific) and engineering. this new management organization structure was implemented during the first quarter 2019 and, accordingly, segment information has been retrospectively recast for all prior periods. items affecting comparability because praxair and linde ag combined their respective businesses effective with the merger date of october 31, 2018, the year ended december 31, 2019 reflects the results and cash flows of the combined business, while the year ended december 31, 2018 includes twelve months of praxair and two months of linde ag. due to the size of linde ag's businesses prior to the merger, the reported results for 2019 and 2018 periods are not comparable. the balance sheets at december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 are comparable because both periods reflect the merger. pro forma income statement information therefore, to assist with a discussion of the 2019 and 2018 results on a comparable basis, certain supplemental unaudited pro forma income statement information is provided on both a consolidated and segment basis (referred to as "pro forma income statement information" or "pro forma information"). the pro forma information has been prepared on a basis consistent with article 11 of regulation s-x, assuming the merger and merger-related divestitures had been consummated on january 1, 2018. in preparing this pro forma information, the historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma adjustments that are (i) directly attributable to the business combination and other transactions presented herein, such as the merger-related divestitures, (ii) factually supportable, and (iii) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined entity's consolidated results. the pro forma information is based on management's assumptions and is presented for illustrative purposes and does not purport to represent what the results of operations would actually have been if the business combination and merger-related divestitures had occurred as of the dates indicated or what the results would be for any future periods. pro forma information was not developed for the year ended december 31, 2017. also, the pro forma information does not include the impact of any revenue, cost or other operating synergies that may result from the business combination or any related restructuring costs. 22 table of contents business overview with the merger, linde is the leading industrial gas company worldwide. the company's primary products in its industrial gases business are atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, rare gases) and process gases (carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, electronic gases, specialty gases, acetylene). the company also designs, engineers, and builds equipment that produces industrial gases primarily for internal use; and offers its customers a wide range of gas production and processing services such as olefin plants, natural gas plants, air separation plants, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants and other types of plants. linde's industrial gas operations are managed on a geographical basis and in 2019 83% of sales were generated by linde's three geographic segments (americas, emea and apac) and the remaining 17% is related primarily to the engineering segment, and to a lesser extent other (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for operating segment details). linde serves a diverse group of industries including healthcare, petroleum refining, manufacturing, food, beverage carbonation, fiber-optics, steel making, aerospace, chemicals and water treatment. the diversity of end-markets supports financial stability for linde in varied business cycles. linde generates most of its revenues and earnings in the following twelve geographies where the company has its strongest market positions and where distribution and production operations allow the company to deliver the highest level of service to its customers at the lowest cost. north and south america ("americas") europe, middle east and africa ( emea ) asia and pacific ( apac ) united states germany china &amp; taiwan brazil united kingdom australia mexico eastern europe south korea canada india the company manufactures and distributes its industrial gas products through networks of thousands of production plants, pipeline complexes, distribution centers and delivery vehicles. major pipeline complexes are primarily located in the united states. these networks are a competitive advantage, providing the foundation of reliable product supply to the company's customer base. the majority of linde's business is conducted through long-term contracts which provide stability in cash flow and the ability to pass through changes in energy and feedstock costs to customers. the company has growth opportunities in all major geographies and in diverse end-markets such as energy, electronics, chemicals, metals, healthcare, food and beverage, and aerospace. 23 table of contents executive summary financial results &amp; outlook 2019 year in review on october 31, 2018 praxair and linde ag combined their respective businesses through an all-stock merger transaction, and became subsidiaries of linde plc. the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018. sales of $28,228 million were 90% above 2018 sales of $14,836 million , primarily driven by the merger that contributed 89% to sales, net of divestitures. underlying sales increased 1% driven by 3% higher pricing across all geographic segments and 1% volume growth, partially offset by unfavorable currency translation and lower cost pass-through. reported operating profit of $ 2,933 million was 44% below 2018 primarily driven by the net gain on sale of businesses in 2018 partially offset by the impact of the merger, including purchase accounting impacts, in the current year. on an adjusted pro forma basis, operating profit increased $476 million , or 10% , for 2019 versus 2018 , as the impacts of higher pricing and volumes were partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts and cost inflation.* income from continuing operations of $2,183 million and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.00 decreased from $4,273 million and $12.79 , respectively in 2018 . adjusted pro forma income from continuing operations of $4,003 million and adjusted pro forma diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $7.34 were 17% and 19% , respectively above 2018 adjusted pro forma amounts.* cash flow from operations was $ 6,119 million , or 22% of sales. capital expenditures were $3,682 million ; dividends paid were $1,891 million ; net purchases of ordinary shares of $2,586 million ; and debt repayments, net were $1,260 million . * a reconciliation of the adjusted pro forma amounts can be found in the "supplemental pro forma income statement information" and "non-gaap financial measures" section in this md&amp;a. see notes 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 13 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 2020 outlook the company's business is to build, own, and operate industrial gas plants in order to supply atmospheric and process gases to customers. as such, linde believes that its sale of gas project backlog is one indicator of future sales growth. at december 31, 2019 , linde's sale of gas backlog of large projects under construction was $4.4 billion. this represents the total estimated capital cost of large plants under construction. apac and americas represent 64 percent and 29 percent of the backlog, respectively, with the remaining backlog in emea. these plants will primarily supply customers in the energy, chemical, and electronics end-markets. the above outlook should be read in conjunction with the section entitled forward-looking statements. linde provides quarterly updates on operating results, material trends that may affect financial performance, and financial guidance via earnings releases and investor teleconferences. these materials are available on the company's website, www.linde.com, but are not incorporated herein. 24 table of contents consolidated results and other information the following table provides summary information for 2019, 2018 and 2017. the reported amounts are gaap amounts from the consolidated statements of income. the pro forma and adjusted pro forma amounts are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial information and are not a substitute for gaap measures. the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018 (the merger date), including the impacts of purchase accounting (see notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the historical periods prior to 2018 reflect the results of praxair, inc: reported amounts (gaap) pro forma amounts (a) (millions of dollars, except per share data) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 reported amounts sales $ 28,228 $ 14,836 $ 11,358 90 % 31 % $ 28,163 $ 28,084 % cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 16,644 $ 9,020 $ 6,382 85 % 41 % $ 16,584 $ 16,929 (2 )% as a percent of sales 59.0 % 60.8 % 56.2 % 58.9 % 60.3 % selling, general and administrative $ 3,457 $ 1,629 $ 1,207 112 % 35 % $ 3,456 $ 3,635 (5 )% as a percent of sales 12.2 % 11.0 % 10.6 % 12.3 % 12.9 % depreciation and amortization $ 4,675 $ 1,830 $ 1,184 155 % 55 % $ 4,675 $ 4,924 (5 )% cost reduction programs and other charges (b) $ 567 $ 309 $ 52 $ 377 $ 56 net gain on sale of businesses (b) $ 164 $ 3,294 $ $ $ operating profit $ 2,933 $ 5,247 $ 2,444 (44 )% 115 % $ 2,955 $ 2,561 15 % operating margin 10.4 % 35.4 % 21.5 % 10.5 % 9.1 % interest expense net $ 38 $ 202 $ 161 (81 )% 25 % $ 38 $ 379 (90 )% net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost $ (32 ) $ (4 ) $ (4 ) 700 % % $ (129 ) $ (165 ) (22 )% effective tax rate 26.3 % 16.2 % 44.9 % 24.6 % 28.5 % income from equity investments $ 114 $ 56 $ 47 104 % 19 % $ 114 $ 52 119 % noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (89 ) $ (15 ) $ (61 ) (75 )% $ (89 ) $ income from continuing operations $ 2,183 $ 4,273 $ 1,247 (49 )% 243 % $ 2,322 $ 1,729 34 % diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 4.00 $ 12.79 $ 4.32 (69 )% 196 % $ 4.25 $ 3.11 37 % diluted shares outstanding (c) 545,170 334,127 289,114 63 % 16 % 545,170 555,151 (2 )% number of employees 79,886 80,820 26,461 adjusted pro forma amounts (d) operating profit $ 5,272 $ 4,796 10 % operating margin 18.7 % 17.1 % income from continuing operations $ 4,003 $ 3,433 17 % diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 7.34 $ 6.19 19 % other financial data (d) ebitda and pro forma ebitda from continuing operations $ 7,722 $ 7,133 $ 3,675 8 % 94 % $ 7,744 $ 7,537 3 % as percent of sales 27.4 % 48.1 % 32.4 % (43 )% 48 % 27.5 % 26.8 % adjusted pro forma ebitda from continuing operations $ 8,178 $ 7,603 8 % as percent of sales 29.0 % 27.1 % ________________________ (a) pro forma amounts are supplemental to the gaap presentations and are prepared on a basis consistent with article 11 of regulation s-x. see "supplemental pro forma income statement information" and "non-gaap reconciliations" sections of this md&amp;a. 25 table of contents (b) see notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements. (c) as a result of the merger, share amounts for the year ended december 31, 2018 reflect the weighted averaging effect of praxair shares outstanding prior to october 31, 2018 and linde shares outstanding from october 31, 2018 through december 31, 2018. (d) adjusted pro forma amounts and other financial data are non-gaap performance measures. a reconciliation of reported amounts to adjusted pro forma amounts can be found in the "supplemental pro forma income statement information" and "non-gaap reconciliations" sections of this md&amp;a. results of operations the following table provides a summary of changes in consolidated reported and pro forma sales: 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 % change % change reported pro forma reported factors contributing to changes - sales volume 1 % 2 % 4 % price/mix 3 % 2 % 2 % cost pass-through (1 )% (1 )% 1 % currency (2 )% (4 )% (1 )% acquisitions/divestitures 89 % 1 % 25 % 90 % % 31 % 2019 compared with 2018 sales reported sales increased $13,392 million , or 90% for the year primarily due to the merger, net of related divestitures. on a pro forma basis sales increased $79 million in 2019 compared to 2018 . on a reported basis, sales increased 90% to $28,228 million in 2019 compared to $14,836 million in 2018 primarily due to the merger, net of related divestitures. volume increased sales by 1% driven by higher volumes largely in the apac segment, including new project start-ups. higher pricing across all geographic segments contributed 3% to sales. currency translation decreased sales by 2% driven by the weakening of the brazilian real, canadian dollar and chinese yuan against the us dollar. lower cost pass-through, primarily natural gas, decreased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. on a pro forma basis, sales were relatively flat with prior year. volume growth of 2% was largely driven by higher volumes in the americas and apac segments, including new project start-ups. higher pricing across the gases segments contributed 2% to sales. unfavorable currency translation, primarily driven by the weakening of the euro, british pound, chinese yuan and australian dollar, decreased sales by 4% . lower cost pass-through, primarily natural gas, decreased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. acquisitions, largely in the americas segment, contributed 1% to sales. cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization reported cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization increased $7,624 million , or 85% , for the year primarily due to the merger, net of related divestitures. on a pro forma basis, cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization decreased $345 million or 2% in 2019 as compared to 2018 . pro forma cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization was 58.9% of sales in the year versus 60.3% of sales for 2018 . the decrease as a percentage of sales in the year was due primarily to higher pricing. selling, general and administrative expenses reported selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expenses increased $1,828 million, or 112% , in 2019 to $ 3,457 million primarily due to the merger. on a pro forma basis, sg&amp;a decreased $179 million , or 5% , versus the 2018 period. on a reported basis, sg&amp;a increased 112% in 2019 , primarily due to the merger. sg&amp;a was 12.2% of sales in 2019 versus 11.0% in 2018 , primarily due to the merger. 26 table of contents on a pro forma basis, sg&amp;a decreased 5% in 2019 versus 2018 . sg&amp;a was 12.3% of sales in 2019 versus 12.9% in 2018 . currency impacts decreased sg&amp;a by approximately $145 million in the 2019 period. excluding currency impacts, underlying sg&amp;a decreased due to cost reduction actions and productivity improvements which also drove the improvement of sg&amp;a as a percentage of sales in the period. depreciation and amortization reported depreciation and amortization expense increased $2,845 million , or 155% , versus 2018 . the increase is primarily due to the merger, including $1,940 million of purchase accounting impacts related to the depreciation and amortization of the fair value adjustments of fixed assets and intangible assets acquired in the merger. on a pro forma basis, depreciation and amortization expense decreased $249 million , or 5% , versus 2018 . currency movements decreased depreciation and amortization by approximately $197 million for the year. excluding currency effects, depreciation and amortization expense decreased approximately $52 million , primarily driven by measurement period adjustments recognized in 2019 (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by increases due to large project start-ups. cost reduction programs and other charges linde recorded cost reduction programs and other charges of $567 million and $309 million for 2019 and 2018 , respectively, primarily related to merger and synergy-related costs and an asset impairment in the third quarter 2019 of approximately $73 million related to a joint venture in apac resulting from an unfavorable arbitration ruling (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). on an adjusted pro forma basis, these costs have been eliminated in both periods. operating profit reported operating profit decreased $2,314 million in 2019 , or 44% , primarily driven by the net gain on sale of businesses in 2018 partially offset by the impact of the merger, including purchase accounting impacts, in the current year. on an adjusted pro forma basis, operating profit increased $476 million , or 10% , for 2019 versus 2018 . on a reported basis, operating profit decreased $2,314 million , or 44% . 2019 includes linde ag's operating results for the full year and a gain on merger-related divestitures of $164 million , which was offset by $1,952 million which primarily related to $1,940 million of purchase accounting charges for additional depreciation and amortization, and $567 million in cost reduction program and other charges. 2018 included linde ag's operating results from october 31, 2018 forward and a gain on merger-related divestitures of $3,294 million , partially offset by purchase accounting impacts of $714 million and $309 million of merger-related charges. on an adjusted pro forma basis, which excludes the impacts of purchase accounting, cost reduction programs and other charges and net gains from merger-related divestitures, operating profit increased $476 million , or 10% , as the impacts of higher pricing and volumes were partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts and cost inflation. a discussion of operating profit by segment is included in the segment discussion that follows. interest expense - net reported interest expense net in 2019 decreased $164 million , or 81% , versus 2018 . on an adjusted pro forma basis interest expense decreased $145 million , or 52% in 2019 as compared to 2018 . on a reported basis, interest expense - net decreased $164 million in 2019 and included a decrease of $96 million related to purchase accounting impacts on the fair value of debt acquired in the merger. excluding this purchase accounting impact, reported interest expense decreased $68 million in the year as interest on debt acquired in the merger was more than offset by higher interest income. on an adjusted pro forma basis, interest expense - net decreased $145 million in 2019 primarily due to lower debt levels and higher interest income. net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost reported net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost was a benefit of $32 million in 2019 versus a benefit of $4 million in 2018 and included pension settlement charges of $97 million and a net $8 million curtailment charge (see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). excluding the impact of these charges, the net pension and opeb benefit, excluding service cost increased $133 million in 2019 , primarily due to the impact of pension and opeb plans acquired in the merger. on an adjusted pro forma basis, net pension and opeb (benefit), excluding service cost was a benefit of $129 million in 2019 versus a benefit of $165 million in 2018. 27 table of contents effective tax rate the reported effective tax rate ("etr") for 2019 was 26.3% versus 16.2% in 2018 . 2018 included the impact of the sale of praxair's european industrial gas business (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). on an adjusted pro forma basis, the etr for 2019 was 24.0% versus 25.8% in 2018 . income from equity investments reported income from equity investments for 2019 increased $58 million to $114 million largely related to investments in apac and emea. this increase is primarily related to the merger. on an adjusted pro forma basis, income from equity investments for 2019 increased $55 million to $171 million . the increase is primarily related to increased earnings from equity investments. noncontrolling interests from continuing operations at december 31, 2019 , noncontrolling interests from continuing operations consisted primarily of noncontrolling shareholders' investments in apac (primarily in china) and surface technologies. reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations increased $74 million to $89 million in 2019 from $15 million in 2018 , primarily driven by the merger. 2019 noncontrolling interests includes a $33 million impact for an asset impairment charge in the third quarter related to a joint venture in apac (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). on an adjusted pro forma basis, noncontrolling interests from continuing operations increased $10 million in 2019 driven by higher income from continuing operations. income from continuing operations reported income from continuing operations decreased $2,090 million , or 49% , primarily due to the 2018 gain on merger-related divestitures, partially offset by the merger. other impacts related to interest - net; net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost; income taxes; income from equity investments; and noncontrolling interest largely offset in the aggregate. on an adjusted pro forma basis, which excludes the impacts of purchase accounting and other non-gaap adjustments, income from continuing operations increased $570 million , or 17% , in 2019 primarily due to higher adjusted pro forma operating profit, lower adjusted pro forma interest expense-net, lower adjusted etr, and higher adjusted pro forma income from equity investments. diluted earnings per share from continuing operations reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased $8.79 , or 69% , in 2019 as compared to 2018 , primarily due to lower net income from continuing operations and higher diluted shares outstanding as a result of the merger. on an adjusted pro forma basis, diluted eps of $7.34 in 2019 increased 19% versus 2018 , primarily due to higher adjusted pro forma income from continuing operations and lower diluted shares outstanding. employees the number of employees at december 31, 2019 was 79,886 , a decrease of 934 employees from december 31, 2018 primarily driven by cost reduction actions partially offset by acquisitions. other financial data ebitda increased to $7,722 million in 2019 from $7,133 million in 2018 , primarily due to the merger. adjusted pro forma ebitda from continuing operations increased to $8,178 million for 2019 as compared to $7,603 million in 2018 primarily due to higher income from continuing operations versus the prior year period. see the "supplemental pro forma income statement information" for pro forma amounts and "non-gaap reconciliations" for adjusted pro forma amounts sections below for definitions and reconciliations of these pro forma and adjusted pro forma non-gaap measures to reported gaap amounts. other comprehensive income (loss) other comprehensive loss for the year ended december 31, 2019 of $435 million resulted primarily from a decrease in the funded status of the company's largest retirement programs. driven by the low discount rate environment, 28 table of contents the other comprehensive loss of $544 million related to the remeasurement of such retirement programs was partially offset by benefits from cumulative translation adjustments. the translation adjustments reflect the impact of translating local currency foreign subsidiary financial statements to u.s. dollars, and are largely driven by the movement of the u.s. dollar against major currencies including the euro, the chinese yuan and the british pound. see the "currency" section of the md&amp;a for exchange rates used for translation purposes and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the currency translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive income by segment. 2018 compared with 2017 sales increased 31% to $14,836 million in 2018 compared to $11,358 million in 2017 primarily reflecting the merger with linde ag which contributed 25% to sales, net of divestitures. underlying sales increased 6% driven by higher volumes and pricing. volume growth of 4% was driven by higher volumes in north america and asia, including new project start-ups. higher overall pricing across all geographic segments contributed 2% to sales. currency translation impact decreased sales by 1%. higher cost pass-through, primarily natural gas, increased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. the divestiture of praxair's european businesses in december of 2018 decreased sales by 1%. selling, general and administrative expenses increased $422 million, or 35%, in 2018 to $1,629 million primarily due to the merger. sg&amp;a was 11.0% of sales in 2018 versus 10.6% in 2017, primarily due to the merger. depreciation and amortization expense increased $646 million, or 55%, versus 2017. the increase is primarily due to the merger, including $346 million of purchase accounting impacts related to the fair value of fixed assets and intangible assets acquired in the merger. cost reduction programs and other charges were $309 million and $52 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively and are primarily related to the merger. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. net gain on the sale of businesses was $3,294 million and related primarily to the divestiture of praxair's european industrial gases business in connection with the merger. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. other income (expenses) net in 2018 was a $18 million benefit versus a $4 million benefit in 2017 (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of major components). in north america, 2018 included a $30 million asset impairment charge which was more than offset by $43 million of gains on asset disposals. in asia, 2018 included a $22 million asset impairment charge, offset by a litigation settlement gain. reported operating profit of $5,247 million in 2018 was $2,803 million, or 115% higher than reported operating profit of $2,444 million in 2017. 2018 includes a net gain on sale of businesses of $3,294 million, partially offset by transaction costs and other charges of $309 million, and purchase accounting impacts of $714 million related to the linde ag merger (see notes 4, 5 and 3, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements). 2017 included transaction costs of $52 million (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). excluding the impact of these items, adjusted operating profit of $2,976 million in 2018 was $480 million, or 19%, higher than adjusted operating profit of $2,496 million in 2017 driven primarily by the merger. higher volumes and price in the geographic segments and surface technologies also contributed to operating profit growth. a discussion of operating profit by segment is included in the segment discussion that follows. reported interest expense net in 2018 increased $41 million, or 25%, versus 2017. 2018 included charges of $26 million relating to the early redemption of notes and a decrease of $21 million related to purchase accounting impacts related to the fair value of debt acquired in the merger (see notes 13 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, respectively). excluding these impacts, adjusted interest expense of $197 million increased $36 million, or 22%, largely attributable to interest on the debt acquired in the merger and lower capitalized interest. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information relating to interest expense. the reported effective tax rate ("etr") for 2018 was 16.2% versus 44.9% in 2017. the decrease in the etr for the 2018 period versus the u.s. statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to the impact of the sale of praxair's european industrial gases business. the increase in the etr for the 2017 period versus the u.s. statutory rate of 35% was primarily due to the net $394 million charge related to the tax act. excluding these and other smaller impacts as set forth in the "non-gaap financial measures" section of this md&amp;a, on an adjusted basis the etr for the 2018 and 2017 periods was 23.8% and 27.2%, respectively. the decrease was driven primarily by the impact of the tax act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017 which lowered the u.s. statutory tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). equity income increased $9 million in 2018 versus 2017 and included charges of $9 million for purchase accounting impacts related to the fair value step up of equity investments acquired in the merger. excluding this impact, equity income increased $18 million, primarily driven by income from equity investments acquired in the merger. 29 table of contents at december 31, 2018, reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations consisted primarily of noncontrolling shareholders' investments in asia (primarily in china) and surface technologies. reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations decreased $46 million to $15 million in 2018 from $61 million in 2017. 2018 includes the impact of the merger and related purchase accounting impacts. excluding these impacts, adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations of $73 million increased $12 million, or 20%, primarily due to noncontrolling interests acquired in the merger. reported income from continuing operations for 2018 was $4,273 million, $3,026 million, or 243%, higher than reported income from continuing operations of $1,247 million in 2017. adjusted income from continuing operations of $2,121 million in 2018 was $431 million, or 26%, higher than adjusted income from continuing operations of $1,690 million in 2017 primarily due to higher adjusted operating profit and a lower effective tax rate. reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("eps") of $12.79 in 2018 increased $8.47 per diluted share, or 196% from $4.32 in 2017. adjusted diluted eps of $6.35 in 2018 increased $.50 per diluted share, or 9%, from adjusted diluted eps of $5.85 in 2017. the increase in adjusted diluted eps was primarily due to the merger and higher adjusted income from continuing operations , partially offset by an increase in diluted shares resulting from equity acquired in the merger. other comprehensive losses for the year ended december 31, 2018 of $299 million resulted primarily from (i) a $221 million unfavorable impact in the funded status of linde's retirement obligations and (ii) adverse currency translation adjustments of $76 million, net of a benefit of $318 million related to the release of currency translation adjustments on praxair's european business (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the decrease in the funded status of retirement obligations was primarily the result of higher current year actuarial losses, as the impact of higher u.s. discount rates was largely offset by a lower actual return on assets. unfavorable translation adjustments reflect the impact of translating local currency foreign subsidiary financial statements into u.s. dollars, and are largely driven by the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies including the euro, brazilian real and canadian dollar. unfavorable currency translation adjustments included $343 million in south america and $149 million in asia, partially offset by favorable currency translation adjustments of $231 million related to linde ag (primarily europe and asia) representing translation impacts for the period from merger date through december 31, 2018. remaining other comprehensive losses of $2 million relate to the amortization of deferred losses on the company's derivatives and unrealized losses on available for sale securities. refer to the currency section of the md&amp;a and notes 9 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements. the number of employees at december 31, 2018 was 80,820, an increase of 54,359 employees from december 31, 2017 primarily driven by an increase of approximately 56,000 related to the merger partially offset by a decrease of approximately 2,500 from the divestiture of praxair's european industrial gases business. other financial data earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") increased $3,458 million to $7,133 million in 2018 from $3,675 million in 2017. ebitda in 2018 includes a gain on sale of businesses and purchase accounting impacts, and both periods include transaction and other costs. excluding the impacts of these items, adjusted ebitda increased $789 million to $4,516 million in 2018 from $3,727 million in 2017 driven by the consolidation of linde ag starting october 31, 2018, and higher adjusted income from continuing operations plus depreciation and amortization versus the prior year. see the non-gaap financial measures section for definitions and reconciliation of these non-gaap measures to reported amounts. related party transactions the company's related parties are primarily unconsolidated equity affiliates. the company did not engage in any material transactions involving related parties that included terms or other aspects that differ from those which would be negotiated with independent parties. environmental matters linde's principal operations relate to the production and distribution of atmospheric and other industrial gases, which historically have not had a significant impact on the environment. however, worldwide costs relating to environmental 30 table of contents protection may continue to grow due to increasingly stringent laws and regulations, and linde's ongoing commitment to rigorous internal standards. in addition, linde may face physical risks from climate change and extreme weather. climate change linde operates in jurisdictions that have, or are developing, laws and/or regulations to reduce or mitigate the perceived adverse effects of greenhouse gas ("ghg") emissions and faces a highly uncertain regulatory environment in this area. for example, the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") has promulgated rules requiring reporting of ghg emissions, and linde and many of its suppliers and customers are subject to these rules. epa has also promulgated regulations to restrict ghg emissions, including final rules regulating ghg emissions from light-duty vehicles and certain large manufacturing facilities, many of which are linde suppliers or customers. in addition to these developments in the united states, ghgs are regulated in the european union under the emissions trading system, which has wide implications for the company's customers and may impact certain operations of linde in europe. there are also requirements for mandatory reporting in canada, which apply to certain linde operations and will be used in developing cap-and-trade regulations on ghg emissions. these regulations are expected to impact certain linde facilities in canada. climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies are also being widely introduced in jurisdictions throughout latin america and parts of asia. china has announced plans to implement its national carbon emissions trading system in 2020, though it does not appear the regulations will have a direct impact on ghg emissions from linde facilities. among other impacts, such regulations are expected to raise the cost of energy, which is a significant cost for linde. nevertheless, linde's long-term customer contracts routinely provide rights to recover increased electricity, natural gas, and other costs that are incurred by the company as a result of climate change regulation. linde anticipates continued growth in its hydrogen business, as hydrogen is essential to refineries that use it to remove sulfur from transportation fuels in order to meet ambient air quality standards in the united states and fuel standards in other regions. hydrogen production plants and a large number of other manufacturing and electricity-generating plants have been identified in california and the european union as a source of carbon dioxide emissions and these plants are subject to cap-and-trade regulations in those jurisdictions. linde believes it will be able to mitigate the costs of these regulations through the terms of its product supply contracts. however, legislation that limits ghg emissions may impact growth by increasing capital, compliance, operating and maintenance costs and/or decreasing demand. to manage business risks from current and potential ghg emission regulation as well as physical consequences of climate change, linde actively monitors current developments, evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, and takes appropriate actions. among others, actions include: increasing relevant resources and training; maintaining contingency plans; obtaining advice and counsel from expert vendors, insurance providers and industry experts; incorporating ghg provisions in commercial agreements; and conducting regular reviews of the business risks with management. although there are considerable uncertainties, linde believes that the business risk from potential regulations can be effectively managed through its commercial contracts. additionally, linde does not anticipate any material effects regarding its plant operations or business arising from potential physical risks of climate change. linde continuously seeks opportunities to optimize energy use and ghg footprint through research and development in customer applications and rigorous operational energy efficiency, investment in renewable energy, and purchasing hydrogen as a chemical byproduct where feasible. linde maintains related performance improvement targets and reports progress against these targets regularly to business management and annually to linde's board of directors. at the same time, linde may benefit from business opportunities arising from governmental regulation of ghg and other emissions; uncertain costs of energy and certain natural resources; the development of renewable energy alternatives; and new technologies that help extract natural gas, improve air quality, increase energy efficiency and mitigate the impacts of climate change. linde continues to develop new applications that can lower emissions, including ghg emissions, in linde's processes and help customers lower energy consumption and increase product throughput. stricter regulation of water quality in emerging economies such as china provide a growing market for a number of gases, e.g., oxygen for wastewater treatment. increased concern about drought in areas such as california and australia may create additional markets for carbon dioxide for desalination. renewable fuel standards in the european union and u.s. create a market for second-generation biofuels which use industrial gases such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. costs relating to the protection of the environment environmental protection costs in 2019 were not significant. linde anticipates that future annual environmental protection expenditures will be similar to 2019 , subject to any significant changes in existing laws and regulations. based 31 table of contents on historical results and current estimates, management does not believe that environmental expenditures will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, the consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any given year. legal proceedings see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning legal proceedings. retirement benefits pensions the net periodic benefit cost for the u.s. and international pension plans was $107 million in 2019 , $24 million in 2018 and $58 million in 2017 . the net periodic pension cost for 2019 includes pension settlement charges of $97 million related to lump sum payments, which were triggered by either a change in control provision or merger-related divestitures and a net curtailment charge of $8 million for termination benefits, primarily in connection with a defined benefit pension plan freeze. settlement charges for 2018 and 2017 were $14 million and $2 million , respectively. the funded status (pension benefit obligation ("pbo") less the fair value of plan assets) for the u.s. plans was a deficit of $504 million as of december 31, 2019 and a deficit of $556 million at december 31, 2018 . the funded status for international plans was a deficit of $1,801 million as of december 31, 2019 and a deficit of $1,241 million at december 31, 2018. in the u.s., the benefit from the actual return on assets more than offset the impacts of unfavorable liability experience, resulting from the low discount rate environment. for the international plans, the unfavorable impact of lower discount rates outweighed favorable plan asset experience. global pension contributions were $ 94 million in 2019 , $ 87 million in 2018 and $ 19 million in 2017 . at a minimum, linde contributes to its pension plans to comply with local regulatory requirements (e.g., erisa in the united states). discretionary contributions in excess of the local minimum requirements are made based on many factors, including long-term projections of the plans' funded status, the economic environment, potential risk of overfunding, pension insurance costs and alternative uses of cash. changes to these factors can impact the timing of discretionary contributions from year to year. estimated required contributions for 2020 are currently expected to be in the range of $50 million to $80 million. linde assumes expected returns on plan assets for 2020 of 7.00% and 5.31% for the u.s. and international plans, respectively, which are consistent with the long-term expected returns on its investment portfolios. excluding the impact of any settlements, 2020 consolidated pension expense is expected to be a benefit of approximately $45 million. the benefit derived from the expected return on assets assumption for linde's most significant plans is anticipated to more than offset the expense from service and interest cost accruals and the amortization of deferred losses. refer to the critical accounting policies section and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the company's retirement benefits, including a description of the various retirement plans and the assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost and funded status. insurance linde purchases insurance to limit a variety of property and casualty risks, including those related to property, business interruption, third-party liability and workers' compensation. currently, the company self retains up to $10 million per occurrence for vehicle liability in the united states, $5 million per occurrence for workers' compensation and general liability. in addition, the company self retains risk up to $5 million at its various properties worldwide for property damage resulting from fire, flood and other perils effecting its properties along with a separate $5 million deductible on all business interruption resulting from a major peril loss. to mitigate its aggregate loss potential above these retentions, the company purchases catastrophic insurance coverage from highly rated insurance companies. the company does not currently operate or participate in any captive insurance companies or other non-traditional risk transfer alternatives. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , the company had recorded a total of $66 million and $60 million, respectively, representing an estimate of the retained liability for the ultimate cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet dates. the estimated liability is established using statistical analysis and is based upon historical experience, actuarial assumptions and professional judgment. these estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity and frequency and are subject to a significant degree of inherent variability. if actual claims differ from the company's estimates, they will be adjusted at that time and financial results could be impacted. linde recognizes estimated insurance proceeds relating to damages at the time of loss only to the extent of incurred losses. any insurance recoveries for business interruption and for property damages in excess of the net book value of the property are recognized only when realized or pending payments confirmed by its insurance companies. 32 table of contents segment discussion effective october 31, 2018, praxair and linde ag completed the previously announced merger, resulting in the formation of linde plc (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the merger). as a result of the merger and effective with the lifting of the hold separate order effective on march 1, 2019, new operating segments were created which are used by the company's chief operating decision maker ("codm") to allocate company resources and assess performance. linde's operations consist of two major product lines: industrial gases and engineering. as further described in the following paragraph, linde's industrial gases operations are managed on a geographic basis, which represents three of the company's new reportable segments - americas, emea (europe/middle east/africa), and apac (asia/south pacific); a fourth reportable segment which represents the company's engineering business, designs and manufactures equipment for air separation and other industrial gas applications specifically for end customers and is managed on a worldwide basis operating in all geographic segments. other consists of corporate costs and a few smaller businesses which individually do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate presentation. the industrial gases product line centers on the manufacturing and distribution of atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, rare gases) and process gases (carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, electronic gases, specialty gases, acetylene). many of these products are co-products of the same manufacturing process. linde manufactures and distributes nearly all of its products and manages its customer relationships on a regional basis. linde's industrial gases are distributed to various end-markets within a regional segment through one of three basic distribution methods: on-site or tonnage; merchant or bulk; and packaged or cylinder gases. the distribution methods are generally integrated in order to best meet the customer's needs and very few of its products can be economically transported outside of a region. therefore, the distribution economics are specific to the various geographies in which the company operates and are consistent with how management assesses performance. the company's measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes remains unchanged - segment operating profit. segment operating profit is defined as operating profit excluding purchase accounting impacts of the linde ag merger, intercompany royalties, and items not indicative of ongoing business trends. this is the manner in which the company's codm assesses performance and allocates resources. for a description of linde's previous operating segments, refer to note 20 to the consolidated financial statements of linde's 2018 annual report on form 10-k. the table below presents sales and operating profit information about reportable segments and other for the year ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. the year ended december 31, 2019 reflects the results of both praxair and linde ag for the entire year. the year ended december 31, 2018 reflects the results of praxair for the entire year and the results of linde ag for the period beginning after october 31, 2018 (the merger date), including the impacts of purchase accounting (see notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements). the historical periods prior to 2018 reflect the results of praxair. prior periods presented have been recast to be consistent with the new segment structure.: 33 table of contents reported variance (millions of dollars) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 sales americas $ 10,993 $ 8,017 $ 7,204 37 % 11 % emea 6,643 2,644 1,520 151 % 74 % apac 5,839 2,446 1,571 139 % 56 % engineering 2,799 459 n/a n/m n/a other 1,954 1,270 1,063 54 % 19 % $ 28,228 $ 14,836 $ 11,358 90 % 31 % operating profit americas $ 2,578 $ 2,053 $ 1,854 26 % 11 % emea 1,367 481 317 184 % 52 % apac 1,198 465 329 158 % 41 % engineering 390 14 n/a n/m n/a other (245 ) (37 ) (4 ) n/m n/m segment operating profit 5,288 2,976 2,496 78 % 19 % reconciliation to reported operating profit : cost reduction programs and other charges (note 5) (567 ) (309 ) (52 ) net gain on sale of businesses 164 3,294 n/a purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (1,952 ) (714 ) n/a total operating profit $ 2,933 $ 5,247 $ 2,444 pro forma variance (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 sales americas $ 10,989 $ 10,539 4 % emea 6,643 6,991 (5 )% apac 5,779 5,950 (3 )% engineering 2,799 2,792 % other 1,953 1,812 8 % $ 28,163 $ 28,084 % operating profit americas $ 2,577 $ 2,433 6 % emea 1,367 1,344 2 % apac 1,184 1,029 15 % engineering 390 285 37 % other (246 ) (295 ) (17 )% segment operating profit $ 5,272 $ 4,796 10 % 34 table of contents americas variance (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 reported sales $ 10,993 $ 8,017 $ 7,204 37 % 11 % pro forma sales $ 10,989 $ 10,539 n/a 4 % n/a reported operating profit $ 2,578 $ 2,053 $ 1,854 26 % 11 % as a percent of sales 23.5 % 25.6 % 25.7 % pro forma operating profit $ 2,577 $ 2,433 n/a 6 % n/a as a percent of sales 23.5 % 23.1 % n/a 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 % change % change reported pro forma reported factors contributing to changes - sales volume/equipment % 1 % 3 % price/mix 3 % 3 % 2 % cost pass-through (1 )% (1 )% 1 % currency (2 )% (2 )% (2 )% acquisitions/divestitures 37 % 3 % 7 % 37 % 4 % 11 % the americas segment includes linde's industrial gases operations in approximately 20 countries including the united states, canada, mexico and brazil. sales reported sales for the americas segment for 2019 increased $ 2,976 million , or 37% , versus 2018 , primarily due to the merger. on a pro forma basis, sales increased $450 million , or 4% , versus 2018 . on a reported basis, sales increased 37% in 2019 primarily due to the merger. higher pricing contributed 3% to sales. unfavorable currency translation decreased sales by 2% , primarily driven by the weakening of the brazilian real, mexican peso and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. lower cost past-through, primarily natural gas, decreased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. on a pro forma basis, volume growth contributed 1% to sales in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily driven by base volume growth in the united states and latin america and project start ups in the united states gulf coast. higher pricing contributed 3% to sales. currency translation decreased sales by 2% . acquisitions and divestitures increased sales by 3% , related primarily to acquisitions in north america. lower cost pass-through decreased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. reported sales for 2018 increased $813 million , or 11% , versus 2017 primarily due to the merger which contributed 7% to sales. underlying sales growth was 4%, driven by higher volumes and higher price. unfavorable currency impacts decreased sales by 2% . higher cost pass-through increased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. operating profit reported operating profit for the americas segment for 2019 increased $525 million , or 26% from 2018 , due primarily to the merger. on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased $144 million , or 6% , for 2019 as compared to 2018 . on a reported basis, operating profit increased 26% in 2019 largely driven by the merger and higher pricing, partially offset by unfavorable currency translation impacts of 2%. 35 table of contents pro forma operating profit in the americas segment increased $144 million for 2019 , or 6% , versus the 2018 period. operating growth from higher volumes, higher price and acquisitions was partially offset by unfavorable currency translation impacts of 2% in the year. the 2018 year also included net gains on asset disposals of approximately $20 million. reported operating profit for 2018 increased $199 million , or 11% , driven primarily by the merger, higher volumes and higher price partially offset by unfavorable currency translation. the 2018 period also included net gains on asset disposals of $13 million. emea (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 reported sales $ 6,643 $ 2,644 $ 1,520 151 % 74 % pro forma sales $ 6,643 $ 6,991 n/a (5 )% n/a reported operating profit $ 1,367 $ 481 $ 317 184 % 52 % as a percent of sales 20.6 % 18.2 % 20.9 % pro forma operating profit $ 1,367 $ 1,344 n/a 2 % n/a as a percent of sales 20.6 % 19.2 % n/a 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 % change % change reported pro forma reported factors contributing to changes volume (1 )% (1 )% 1 % price/mix 1 % 2 % 2 % cost pass-through (1 )% % 2 % currency (1 )% (6 )% 4 % acquisitions/divestitures 153 % % 65 % 151 % (5 )% 74 % the emea segment includes linde's industrial gases operations in approximately 45 european, middle eastern and african countries including germany, france, sweden, the republic of south africa, and the united kingdom. sales on a reported basis, emea segment sales increased by $3,999 million , or 151% , in 2019 as compared to 2018 , primarily due to the merger, net of related divestitures. on a pro forma basis, sales decreased $348 million , or 5% , in 2019 versus 2018 . on a reported basis, sales increased 151% in 2019 driven primarily by the net impact of the merger with linde ag and the related divestiture of praxair's european gases business in the fourth quarter of 2018. excluding this net impact, sales decreased 2%. volumes decreased 1% driven by weaker industrial production. higher price contributed 1% to sales. unfavorable currency translation and cost pass-through each decreased sales by 1% . on a pro forma basis, sales decreased 5% in 2019 , primarily driven by unfavorable currency translation due to the weakening of the euro, british pound and south african rand against the u.s. dollar which decreased sales by 6% . higher price increased sales by 2% . volumes decreased 1% driven by weaker industrial production. reported sales increased $1,124 million , or 74% , in 2018 driven primarily by the merger, net of related divestitures. excluding the impact of the merger and related divestitures, sales increase 9% from 2017. higher cost pass-through 36 table of contents increased sales by 2% with minimal impact on operating profit. favorable currency translation increased sales by 4% . higher volumes and higher price increased sales by 1% and 2% , respectively. operating profit on a reported basis, operating profit for the emea segment increased by $886 million , or 184% , in 2019 as compared to 2018 . on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased $23 million , or 2% , in 2019 versus the respective 2018 period. on a reported basis, operating profit increased 184% in 2019 , driven primarily by the net impact of the merger with linde ag and the related divestiture of praxair's european gases business in the fourth quarter of 2018. on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased 2% in 2019 as compared to 2018 as higher pricing and the impact of cost reduction actions more than offset the impacts of unfavorable currency translation and cost inflation. reported operating profit increased $164 million , or 52% , in 2018 driven primarily by the merger, net of related divestitures. favorable currency translation increased operating profit by 5%. excluding the impact of the merger and related divestitures and currency, operating profit increased driven by higher price and higher volumes, partially offset by cost inflation. apac (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 reported sales $ 5,839 $ 2,446 $ 1,571 139 % 56 % pro forma sales $ 5,779 $ 5,950 n/a (3 )% n/a reported operating profit $ 1,198 $ 465 $ 329 158 % 41 % as a percent of sales 20.5 % 19.0 % pro forma operating profit $ 1,184 $ 1,029 n/a 15 % n/a as a percent of sales 20.5 % 17.3 % n/a 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 % change % change reported pro forma reported factors contributing to changes volume 4 % 1 % 9 % price/mix 2 % 2 % 2 % cost pass-through % (1 )% 1 % currency (3 )% (4 )% 1 % acquisitions/divestitures 136 % (1 )% 43 % 139 % (3 )% 56 % the apac segment includes linde's industrial gases operations in approximately 20 asian and south pacific countries and regions including china, australia, india, south korea and taiwan. sales on a reported basis, apac segment sales increased by $3,393 million , or 139% , in 2019 as compared to 2018 , primarily due to the merger. on a pro forma basis, sales decreased $171 million , or 3% , in 2019 versus 2018 . 37 table of contents on a reported basis, sales increased 139% in 2019 driven by the merger. unfavorable currency translation decreased sales by 3% , driven primarily by the weakening of the chinese yuan, korean won and indian rupee against the u.s. dollar. excluding the impacts of the merger and currency, sales increased by 6% driven by higher base volumes, new project start ups and higher price. on a pro forma basis, sales decreased 3% in 2019 . higher pricing increased sales by 2% . higher volumes contributed 1% to sales driven by higher base volumes and new project start-ups. currency translation decreased sales by 4% . lower cost pass-through decreased sales by 1% with minimal impact on operating profit. acquisitions and divestitures decreased sales by 1% . reported sales in 2018 increased $875 million , or 56% , versus 2017 driven primarily by the merger which contributed 43% to sales. cost pass-through, primarily energy, and currency impacts each increased sales by 1%. volume growth of 9% was primarily attributable to base volume growth in china, korea and india and new project start-ups in china. higher price increased sales by 2% driven by china. operating profit on a reported basis, operating profit for the apac segment increased by $733 million , or 158% , in 2019 as compared to 2018 , due primarily to the merger. on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased $155 million , or 15% , in 2019 versus the respective 2018 period. on a reported basis, operating profit increased 158% in 2019 , driven by the net impact of the merger with linde ag. unfavorable currency translation decreased operating profit by 3% for the year. excluding the merger and currency impacts, operating profit growth was driven by higher price and cost reduction programs. on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased 15% in 2019 as compared to 2018 . unfavorable currency translation decreased operating profit by 5% in the year. excluding currency impacts, operating growth was driven by higher price and cost reduction programs. reported operating profit in 2018 increased $136 million , or 41% , versus 2017 driven primarily by the merger, higher volumes and price. operating profit for 2018 included a $22 million asset impairment charge, offset by a litigation settlement gain. 38 table of contents engineering (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 reported sales $ 2,799 $ 459 n/a 510 % 100 % pro forma sales $ 2,799 $ 2,792 n/a % n/a reported operating profit $ 390 $ 14 n/a n/m 100 % as a percent of sales 13.9 % 3.1 % pro forma operating profit $ 390 $ 285 n/a 37 % n/a as a percent of sales 13.9 % 10.2 % n/a 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 % change % change reported pro forma reported factors contributing to changes volume/price 8 % 4 % % currency (2 )% (4 )% % acquisitions/divestitures 504 % % 100 % 510 % % 100 % sales reported engineering segment sales increased $2,340 million , or 510% , in 2019 as compared to the respective 2018 period. on a pro forma basis, segment sales increased $7 million in 2019 as compared to the respective 2018 period. on a reported basis, 2019 sales increased 510% in year primarily related to the merger of the linde engineering business. excluding the impact of the merger, volume growth of 8% was partially offset by unfavorable currency translation of 2% . on a pro forma basis, 2019 sales were flat versus 2018 as volume growth of 4% was offset by unfavorable currency translation of 4% . reported sales for 2018 increased 100% versus 2017 due to the merger of the linde engineering business. operating profit reported engineering segment operating profit increased $376 million , or 2,686% , in 2019 versus 2018 . on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased $105 million , or 37% , in 2019 versus 2018 . on a reported basis, operating profit increased in 2019 related primarily to the merger of the linde engineering business. on a pro forma basis, operating profit increased 37% for the year. unfavorable currency translation decreased operating profit by 4% in 2019 . excluding the impact of currency, operating profit increased due to timing of project completion, favorable costs and procurement savings. reported operating profit for 2018 increased 100% versus 2017 due to the merger of the linde engineering business. 39 table of contents other (dollar amounts in millions) year ended december 31, variance 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 reported sales $ 1,954 $ 1,270 $ 1,063 54 % 19 % pro forma sales $ 1,953 $ 1,812 n/a 8 % n/a reported operating profit $ (245 ) $ (37 ) $ (4 ) (562 )% 825 % as a percent of sales (12.5 )% (2.9 )% pro forma operating profit $ (246 ) $ (295 ) n/a 17 % n/a as a percent of sales (12.6 )% (16.3 )% n/a 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 % change % change reported pro forma reported factors contributing to changes volume/price 9 % 12 % 8 % currency (2 )% (4 )% 2 % acquisitions/divestitures 47 % % 9 % 54 % 8 % 19 % other consists of corporate costs and a few smaller businesses including: surface technologies, gist, global helium wholesale, and electronic materials; which individually do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate presentation. sales reported sales for other increased $684 million , or 54% , for the 2019 year versus the respective 2018 period, primarily due to the merger. on a pro forma basis, sales increased $141 million , or 8% , for 2019 versus the respective 2018 periods. on a reported basis, sales increased 54% for the year, primarily due to the merger which increased sales by 47% . higher volumes and price increased sales by 9% in the year, primarily driven by higher surface technologies volumes to the aerospace and manufacturing end-markets and higher price. currency translation decreased sales by 2% for the year. on a pro forma basis, sales increased 8% for 2019 . volume and price growth increased sales by 12% , driven by helium and surface technologies. currency translation decreased sales by 4% . reported sales for 2018 increased $207 million , or 19% , versus 2017 driven primarily by the merger. excluding the impact of the merger, underlying sales increased driven by surface technologies volumes to the aerospace and manufacturing end-markets and higher price. operating profit reported operating profit in other decreased $208 million in 2019 versus the respective 2018 periods, due primarily to the merger. on a pro forma basis, operating loss improved $49 million , or 17% , when comparing 2019 to the 2018 period. on a reported basis, operating profit decreased $208 million primarily related to the merger as operating profit increases from higher volumes and price were more than offset by the merger of linde ag corporate. on a pro forma basis, operating profit improved $49 million in the year. higher volumes, helium pricing and cost reduction actions improved operating profit which was partially offset by higher helium sourcing costs. 40 table of contents reported operating profit for 2018 decreased $33 million versus 2017 primarily related to the merger as operating profit increases from higher volumes and price were more than offset by the merger of linde ag corporate. 41 table of contents currency the results of linde's non-u.s. operations are translated to the company's reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, from the functional currencies used in the countries in which the company operates. for most foreign operations, linde uses the local currency as its functional currency. there is inherent variability and unpredictability in the relationship of these functional currencies to the u.s. dollar and such currency movements may materially impact linde's results of operations in any given period. to help understand the reported results, the following is a summary of the significant currencies underlying linde's consolidated results and the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements (rates of exchange expressed in units of local currency per u.s. dollar): percent of 2019 consolidated sales statements of income balance sheets average year ended december 31, december 31, currency 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 euro 20 % 0.89 0.85 0.89 0.89 0.87 chinese yuan 7 % 6.90 6.60 6.76 6.96 6.88 british pound 6 % 0.78 0.75 0.78 0.75 0.78 australian dollar 4 % 1.44 1.34 n/a 1.42 1.42 brazilian real 4 % 3.94 3.63 3.19 4.03 3.87 korean won 3 % 1,165 1,100 1,131 1,156 1,111 canadian dollar 3 % 1.33 1.30 1.30 1.30 1.36 mexican peso 2 % 19.24 19.20 18.86 18.93 19.65 taiwan dollar 2 % 30.90 30.13 30.43 29.99 30.55 indian rupee 2 % 70.40 68.00 65.00 71.38 69.77 south african rand 1 % 14.43 13.16 n/a 14.00 14.35 swedish kroner 1 % 9.45 8.68 8.53 9.37 8.85 thailand bhat 1 % 31.04 32.30 33.91 29.71 32.33 42 table of contents liquidity, capital resources and other financial data (millions of dollars) year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 net cash provided by (used for) operating activities income from continuing operations (including noncontrolling interests) $ 2,272 $ 4,288 $ 1,308 non-cash charges (credits): add: cost reduction programs and other charges, net of payments (a) (236 ) 40 26 add: amortization of merger-related inventory step-up 12 368 less: net gain on sale of businesses, net of tax (b) (108 ) (2,923 ) add: tax act income tax charge, net (61 ) 394 add: depreciation and amortization 4,675 1,830 1,184 add (less): deferred income taxes, excluding tax act (303 ) (187 ) 136 add (less): non-cash charges and other (32 ) 237 102 income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash charges and other 6,280 3,592 3,150 less: pension contributions (94 ) (87 ) (19 ) add (less): working capital (160 ) 202 (158 ) add (less): other 93 (53 ) 68 net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,119 $ 3,654 $ 3,041 investing activities capital expenditures $ (3,682 ) $ (1,883 ) $ (1,311 ) acquisitions, net of cash acquired (225 ) (25 ) (33 ) divestitures and asset sales, net of cash divested 5,096 5,908 30 cash acquired in merger transaction 1,363 net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ 1,189 $ 5,363 $ (1,314 ) financing activities debt increases (decreases) net $ (1,260 ) $ (2,908 ) $ (771 ) issuances (purchases) of ordinary shares net (2,586 ) (522 ) 108 cash dividends linde plc shareholders (1,891 ) (1,166 ) (901 ) noncontrolling interest transactions and other (3,260 ) (402 ) (92 ) net cash (used) for financing activities $ (8,997 ) $ (4,998 ) $ (1,656 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash $ (77 ) $ (60 ) $ 22 cash and cash equivalents, end-of-period $ 2,700 $ 4,466 $ 617 ____________________ (a) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. (b) see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. cash decreased $ 1,766 million in 2019 versus 2018 . the primary sources of cash in 2019 were cash flows from operations of $6,119 million and proceeds from divestitures and asset sales of $5,096 million . the primary uses of cash included capital expenditures of $3,682 million , transactions with noncontrolling interests of $3,260 million , net purchases of ordinary shares of $2,586 million , cash dividends to shareholders of $1,891 million and net debt repayments of $1,260 million . noncontrolling interest transactions and other of $3,260 million included a payment of approximately $3.2 billion related to the cash-merger squeeze-out of the 8% of linde ag shares completed on april 8, 2019 (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). 43 table of contents cash flows from operations 2019 compared with 2018 cash flows from operations was $6,119 million , or 22% of sales, an increase of $2,465 million from $3,654 million , or 25% of sales in 2018. the increase was primarily attributable to the merger which drove higher net income adjusted for non-cash charges, partially offset by higher working capital requirements and higher merger and synergy related cash outflows. 2019 included merger and synergy related cash outflows of $803 million, of which $567 million is included within "net income (including noncontrolling interests)" and $236 million is included within "cost reduction programs and other charges, net of payments". 2018 compared with 2017 cash flows from operations was $3,654 million , or 25% of sales, an increase of $613 million from $3,041 million , or 27% of sales in 2017. the increase was primarily attributable to the merger, higher net income adjusted for non-cash charges and favorable working capital requirements, partially offset by unfavorable changes in other long term assets and liabilities and higher pension contributions. 44 table of contents investing 2019 compared with 2018 net cash provided by investing activities of $1,189 million decreased $4,174 million from 2018 primarily driven by lower proceeds from merger-related divestitures, cash acquired in the merger and higher capital expenditures. capital expenditures in 2019 were $3,682 million , an increase of $1,799 million from 2018 , driven primarily by the merger. capital expenditures during 2019 related primarily to investments in new plant and production equipment for growth. approximately 44% of the capital expenditures were in the americas segment with 33% in the apac segment and the rest primarily in the emea segment. acquisition expenditures in 2019 were $225 million , an increase of $200 million from 2018 and related primarily to acquisitions in the americas. divestitures and asset sales in 2019 totaled $5,096 million primarily driven by proceeds from merger-related divestitures including $3.4 billion from the sale of linde ag's americas business, $1.2 billion from the sale of linde korea, and approximately $200 million each from the sale of the legacy praxair and legacy linde india selected assets (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 2018 divestiture and asset sale cash flows included $5.6 billion from the sale of praxair's european business and $214 million related to the sale of praxair's italian joint venture (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 2018 compared with 2017 net cash provided by investing activities of $5,363 million increased $6,677 million from 2017 primarily driven by proceeds from the divestiture of praxair's european business and cash acquired in the merger, partially offset by higher capital expenditures. capital expenditures in 2018 were $1,883 million , an increase of $572 million from 2017, driven primarily by the merger with linde ag. capital expenditures during 2019 related primarily to investments in new plant and production equipment for growth and density. acquisition expenditures in 2018 were $25 million , a decrease of $8 million from 2017. additionally, $1,363 million of cash was acquired in the merger (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). divestitures and asset sales in 2018 totaled $5,908 million primarily driven by proceeds from merger-related divestitures including $5.6 billion from the sale of praxair's european business and $214 million related to the sale of praxair's italian joint venture (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 45 table of contents financing linde's financing strategy is to secure long-term committed funding by issuing public notes and debentures and commercial paper backed by a long-term bank credit agreement. linde's international operations are funded through a combination of local borrowing and intercompany funding to minimize the total cost of funds and to manage and centralize currency exchange exposures. as deemed necessary, linde manages its exposure to interest-rate changes through the use of financial derivatives (see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk). cash used for financing activities was $8,997 million in 2019 compared to $4,998 million in 2018 . the primary financing uses of cash were for transactions with noncontrolling interests, net debt repayments, cash dividends and net purchases of linde ordinary shares. noncontrolling interest transactions and other payments of $3,260 million increased $2,858 million from 2018 driven by a payment of approximately $3.2 billion for the cash-merger squeeze-out of the 8% of linde ag shares completed on april 8, 2019 (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). amounts paid in 2018 include $315 million for the purchase of the noncontrolling interest in praxair's italian joint venture in a merger-related transaction (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements) and $25 million in interest related to the early redemption of bonds. cash dividends of $1,891 million increased $725 million from 2018 driven primarily by higher shares outstanding after the merger and a 6% increase in dividends per share from $3.30 to $3.50. net purchases of ordinary shares were $2,586 million in 2019 versus $522 million in 2018 driven by increased share repurchases. the cash used for debt repayments-net of $1,260 million decreased $1,648 million from $2,908 million during 2018 while cash decreased $1,766 million . net debt (calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents) increased $426 million primarily due to lower cash balances partially offset by debt repayments. the company believes that it has sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves, and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity to meet its business needs around the world. at december 31, 2019 , linde's credit ratings as reported by standard &amp; poor's and moody's were a-1 and p-1 for short-term debt, respectively, and a and a2 for long-term debt, respectively. note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information with respect to the company's debt repayments in 2019 , current debt position, debt covenants and the available credit facilities; and note 14 includes information relating to derivative financial instruments. linde's credit facilities are with major financial institutions and are non-cancelable until maturity. therefore, the company believes the risk of the financial institutions being unable to make required loans under the credit facilities, if requested, to be low. linde's major bank credit and long-term debt agreements contain standard covenants. the company was in compliance with these covenants at december 31, 2019 and expects to remain in compliance for the foreseeable future. linde's total net debt outstanding at december 31, 2019 was $11,256 million , $426 million higher than $10,830 million at december 31, 2018 . the december 31, 2019 net debt balance includes $12,752 million in public securities, $1,204 million representing primarily worldwide bank borrowings, net of $2,700 million of cash. linde's global effective borrowing rate was approximately 2% for 2019 . in february 2019, linde repaid $500 million of 1.90% rate notes that became due; in may 2019 linde repaid $150 million of variable rate notes that became due; in june 2019 linde repaid 500 million of 1.75% notes that due and aud100 million of variable rate notes that became due; in august 2019 linde repaid $200 million of variable rate notes that became due. on march 26, 2019 the company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into an unsecured revolving credit agreement ("the credit agreement") with a syndicate of banking institutions, which became effective on march 29, 2019. the credit agreement provides for total commitments of $5.0 billion , which may be increased up to $6.5 billion , subject to receipt of additional commitments and satisfaction of customary conditions. there are no financial maintenance covenants contained within the credit agreement. the revolving credit facility expires on march 26, 2024 with the option to request two one -year extensions of the expiration date. in connection with the effectiveness of the credit agreement, praxair and linde ag terminated their respective existing revolving credit facilities. no borrowings were outstanding under the credit agreement as of december 31, 2019. on september 3, 2019, linde and the company's subsidiaries praxair and linde ag entered into a series of parent and subsidiary guarantees related to currently outstanding notes issued by praxair and linde ag as well as the $5 billion credit agreement. on december 10, 2018, the company announced a $1.0 billion share repurchase program, which was completed in february of 2019. on january 22, 2019, the company's board of directors approved the additional repurchase of $6.0 billion of its ordinary shares, of which $2.3 billion had been repurchased through december 31, 2019 . for additional information 46 table of contents related to the share repurchase programs, see part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. contractual obligations the following table sets forth linde's material contract obligations and other commercial commitments as of december 31, 2019 : (millions of dollars) due or expiring by december 31, 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total long-term debt obligations: debt and capitalized lease maturities (note 13) $ 1,531 $ 1,855 $ 2,330 $ 1,798 $ 983 $ 3,727 $ 12,224 contractual interest 297 237 175 146 98 585 1,538 operating leases (note 6) 275 208 163 110 75 251 1,082 retirement obligations 101 36 37 37 36 183 430 unconditional purchase obligations 833 769 718 660 650 2,877 6,507 construction commitments 2,234 871 291 25 3,421 total contractual obligations $ 5,271 $ 3,976 $ 3,714 $ 2,776 $ 1,842 $ 7,623 $ 25,202 contractual interest on long-term debt of $ 1,538 million represents interest the company is contracted to pay on outstanding long-term debt, current portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, calculated on a basis consistent with planned debt maturities, excluding the interest impact of interest rate swaps. at december 31, 2019 , linde had fixed-rate debt of $10,799 million and floating-rate debt of $3,157 million . the rate assumed for floating-rate debt was the rate in effect at december 31, 2019 . retirement obligations of $ 430 million include estimates of pension plan contributions and expected future benefit payments for unfunded pension and opeb plans. pension plan contributions are forecasted for 2020 only. for purposes of the table, $60 million of estimated contributions have been included for 2020. expected future unfunded pension and opeb benefit payments are forecasted only through 2029. contribution and unfunded benefit payment estimates are based upon current valuation assumptions. estimates of pension contributions after 2020 and unfunded benefit payments after 2029 are not included in the table because the timing of their resolution cannot be estimated. retirement obligations are more fully described in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. unconditional purchase obligations of $6,507 million represent contractual commitments under various long and short-term take-or-pay arrangements with suppliers and are not included on linde's balance sheet. these obligations are primarily minimum-purchase commitments for helium, electricity, natural gas and feedstock used to produce atmospheric and process gases. a significant portion of these obligations is passed on to customers through similar take-or-pay or other contractual arrangements. purchase obligations that are not passed along to customers through such contractual arrangements are subject to market conditions, but do not represent a material risk to linde. approximately $2,983 million of the purchase obligations relates to power and is intended to secure the uninterrupted supply of electricity and feedstock to linde's plants to reliably satisfy customer product supply obligations, and extend through 2030. certain of the power contracts contain various cancellation provisions requiring supplier agreement, and many are subject to annual escalations based on local inflation factors. construction commitments of $3,421 million represent outstanding commitments to complete authorized construction projects as of december 31, 2019. a significant portion of linde's capital spending is related to the construction of new production facilities to satisfy customer commitments which may take a year or more to complete. liabilities for uncertain tax positions totaling $415 million, including interest and penalties, are not included in the table because the timing of their resolution cannot be estimated. tax liabilities for deemed repatriation of earnings of $261 million are payable over the next six years. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures surrounding the "tax act" and uncertain income tax positions. 47 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements as discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, at december 31, 2019 , linde had undrawn outstanding letters of credit, bank guarantees and surety bonds entered into in connection with normal business operations and they are not reasonably likely to have a material impact on linde's consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. critical accounting policies the policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical to understanding linde's financial statements and accompanying notes prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("u.s. gaap"). their application places significant importance on management's judgment as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. linde's financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected if actual results differ from estimates made. these policies are determined by management and have been reviewed by linde's audit committee. purchase accounting linde ag's assets and liabilities were measured at fair value as of the date of the merger. estimates of fair value represent management's best estimate of assumptions about future events and uncertainties. in determining the fair value, linde utilized various forms of the income, cost and market approaches depending on the asset or liability being fair valued. the estimation of fair value includes significant judgments related to future cash flows (sales, costs, customer attrition rates, and contributory asset charges), discount rates, competitive trends, market comparables and others. inputs were generally obtained from historical data supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions and growth rates. the estimates and assumptions used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets and liabilities, as well as asset lives, have a material impact to the company's consolidated financial statements, and are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain. as of the end of 2019, the valuation process to determine the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities is complete. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. depreciation and amortization depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment linde's net property, plant and equipment at december 31, 2019 was $29,064 million , representing 34% of the company's consolidated total assets. depreciation expense for the year ended december 31, 2019 was $3,940 million , or 16% of total operating costs. management judgment is required in the determination of the estimated depreciable lives that are used to calculate the annual depreciation expense and accumulated depreciation. property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the assets' estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis for financial reporting purposes. the estimated useful life represents the projected period of time that the asset will be productively employed by the company and is determined by management based on many factors, including historical experience with similar assets, technological life cycles, geographic locations and contractual supply relationships with on-site customers. circumstances and events relating to these assets, such as on-site contract modifications, are monitored to ensure that changes in asset lives or impairments (see asset impairments ) are identified and prospective depreciation expense or impairment expense is adjusted accordingly. linde's largest asset values relate to cryogenic air-separation production plants with depreciable lives of principally 15 years. based upon the assets as of december 31, 2019 , if depreciable lives of machinery and equipment, on average, were increased or decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would be decreased by approximately $471 million or increased by approximately $618 million , respectively. see notes 3, 9 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. amortization of other intangible assets linde's net other intangible assets at december 31, 2019 was $16,137 million , representing 19% of the company's consolidated total assets, including $1,870 million of indefinite-lived intangibles. amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets for the year ended december 31, 2019 was $735 million , or 3% of total operating costs. management judgment is required in the determination of the estimated amortizable lives that are used to calculate the annual amortization expense and accumulated amortization. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. 48 table of contents based upon the assets as of december 31, 2019 , if amortization lives of other intangible assets, on average, were increased or decreased by one year, annual amortization expense would be decreased by approximately $33 million or increased by approximately $36 million , respectively. see notes 3, 9, and 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. revenue recognition long-term construction contracts the company designs and manufactures equipment for air separation and other varied gas production and processing plants manufactured specifically for end customers. revenue from sale of equipment is generally recognized over time as linde has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date and performance does not create an asset with alternative use. for contracts recognized over time, revenue is recognized primarily using a cost incurred input method. costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion are used to measure progress toward satisfying performance obligations. costs incurred include material, labor, and overhead costs and represent work contributing and proportionate to the transfer of control to the customer. contract modifications are typically accounted for as part of the existing contract and are recognized as a cumulative adjustment for the inception-to-date effect of such change. we assess performance as progress towards completion is achieved on specific projects, earnings will be impacted by changes to our forecast of revenues and costs on these projects. pension benefits pension benefits represent financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to the company's plans. the company utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. several key assumptions are used in actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the financial statements. management believes the three most significant variables in the models are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, and the expected rate of compensation increase. the actuarial models also use assumptions for various other factors, including employee turnover, retirement age, and mortality. linde management believes the assumptions used in the actuarial calculations are reasonable, reflect the company's experience and expectations for the future and are within accepted practices in each of the respective geographic locations in which it operates. actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors. the sensitivities to each of the key assumptions presented below exclude the impact of special items that occurred during the year (e.g., divestiture-related settlement charges, settlement charges resulting from change in control provisions, etc.). the weighted-average expected long-term rates of return on pension plan assets were 7.27% for u.s. plans and 5.15% for international plans for the year ended december 31, 2019 ( 7.62% and 5.13% , respectively at december 31, 2018 ). the expected long-term rate of return on the u.s. and international plan assets is estimated based on the plans' investment strategy and asset allocation, historical capital market performance and, to a lesser extent, historical plan performance. a 0.50% change in these expected long-term rates of return, with all other variables held constant, would change linde's pension expense by approximately $44 million. the company has consistently used a market-related value of assets rather than the fair value at the measurement date to determine annual pension expense. the market-related value recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period. as a result, changes in the fair value of assets from year to year are not immediately reflected in the company's annual pension expense. instead, annual pension expense in future periods will be impacted as deferred investment gains or losses are recognized in the market-related value of assets over the five-year period. the consolidated market-related value of assets was $8,778 million, or $158 million lower than the fair value of assets of $8,936 million at december 31, 2019 . these net deferred investment losses of $158 million will be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets ratably over the next four years and will impact future pension expense. future actual investment gains or losses will impact the market-related value of assets and, therefore, will impact future annual pension expense in a similar manner. discount rates are used to calculate the present value of plan liabilities and pension costs and are determined annually by management. the company measures the service and interest cost components of pension and opeb expense for significant u.s. and international plans using the spot rate approach. u.s. plans that do not use the spot rate approach continue to determine discount rates by using a cash flow matching model provided by the company's independent actuaries. the model includes a portfolio of corporate bonds graded aa or better by at least half of the ratings agencies and matches the u.s. plans' projected cash flows to the calculated spot rates. discount rates for the remaining international plans are based on market yields for high-quality fixed income investments representing the approximate duration of the pension liabilities on the measurement 49 table of contents date. refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the discount rates used to calculate plan liabilities and benefit costs, and to the retirement benefits section of the consolidated results and other information section of this md&amp;a for a further discussion of 2019 benefit costs. a 0.50% reduction in discount rates, with all other variables held constant, would increase linde's pension expense by approximately $29 million whereas a 0.50% increase in discount rates would result in a decrease of $25 million. a 0.50% reduction in discount rates would increase the pbo by approximately $976 million whereas a 0.50% increase in discount rates would have a favorable impact to the pbo of approximately $855 million. the weighted-average expected rate of compensation increase was 3.25% for u.s. plans and 2.46% for international plans at december 31, 2019 ( 3.25% and 2.38% , respectively, at december 31, 2018 ). the estimated annual compensation increase is determined by management every year and is based on historical trends and market indices. a 0.50% change in the expected rate of compensation increase, with all other variables held constant, would change linde's pension expense by approximately $8 million and would impact the pbo by approximately $65 million. asset impairments goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles assets at december 31, 2019 , the company had goodwill of $27,019 million and $1,870 million of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. goodwill represents the aggregate of the excess consideration paid for acquired businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. indefinite-lived other intangibles relate to the linde name. the company performs a goodwill impairment test annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, the company changed the date of its annual goodwill impairment test from april 30 to october 1. the change was made to more closely align the impairment testing date with the company's planning process. the change in annual impairment testing date did not delay, accelerate or avoid an impairment charge. the company has determined this change in the method of applying an accounting principle is preferable. the impairment tests performed during the second and fourth quarters of 2019 indicated no impairment. at december 31, 2019 , linde's enterprise value was approximately $125 billion (outstanding shares multiplied by the year-end stock price plus net debt, and without any control premium) while its total capital was approximately $63 billion . the impairment test allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value. if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value then the company will estimate and compare the fair value of its reporting units to their carrying value, including goodwill. reporting units are determined based on one level below the operating segment level. in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit, management applied a multiple of earnings from a peer group to the company's forecasted earnings for the year ending december 31, 2019. the peer group is comprised of comparable entities with similar operations and economic characteristics. such analysis requires the use of certain market assumptions and discount factors, which are subjective in nature. as applicable, estimated values can be affected by many factors beyond the company's control such as business and economic trends, government regulation, and technological changes. management believes that the quantitative and qualitative factors used to perform its annual goodwill impairment assessment are appropriate and reasonable. although the 2019 assessment indicated that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, changes in circumstances or conditions affecting this analysis could have a significant impact on the fair value determination, which could then result in a material impairment charge to the company's results of operations. reporting units with greater concentration of linde ag assets fair valued during the recent merger are at greater risk of impairment in future periods. other indefinite-lived intangible assets from linde ag recently fair valued are evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, and no impairments were indicated. see notes 3, 11 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived other intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an individual asset or asset group may not be recoverable. for purposes of this test, asset groups are determined based upon the lowest level for which 50 table of contents there are independent and identifiable cash flows. based upon linde's business model, for property, plant and equipment an asset group may be a single plant and related assets used to support on-site, merchant and packaged gas customers. alternatively, the asset group may be a pipeline complex which includes multiple interdependent plants and related assets connected by pipelines within a geographic area used to support the same distribution methods. income taxes at december 31, 2019 , linde had deferred tax assets of $2,179 million (net of valuation allowances of $222 million ), and deferred tax liabilities of $8,825 million . at december 31, 2019 , uncertain tax positions totaled $472 million (see notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements). income tax expense was $769 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 , or about 26.3% of pre-tax income (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to taxes). in the preparation of consolidated financial statements, linde estimates income taxes based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in various jurisdictions where the company conducts business. deferred income tax assets and liabilities represent tax benefits or obligations that arise from temporary differences due to differing treatment of certain items for accounting and income tax purposes. linde evaluates deferred tax assets each period to ensure that estimated future taxable income will be sufficient in character (e.g. capital gain versus ordinary income treatment), amount and timing to result in their recovery. a valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized to reduce the assets to their realizable value. considerable judgments are required in establishing deferred tax valuation allowances and in assessing exposures related to tax matters. as events and circumstances change, related reserves and valuation allowances are adjusted to income at that time. linde's tax returns are subject to audit and local taxing authorities could challenge the company's tax positions. the company's practice is to review tax filing positions by jurisdiction and to record provisions for uncertain income tax positions, including interest and penalties when applicable. linde believes it records and/or discloses such potential tax liabilities as appropriate and has reasonably estimated its income tax liabilities and recoverable tax assets. if new information becomes available, adjustments are charged or credited against income at that time. management does not anticipate that such adjustments would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, it is possible that the final outcomes could have a material impact on the company's reported results of operations. contingencies the company accrues liabilities for non-income tax contingencies when management believes that a loss is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, while contingent gains are recognized only when realized or realizable. if new information becomes available or losses are sustained in excess of recorded amounts, adjustments are charged against income at that time. management does not anticipate that in the aggregate such losses would have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, it is possible that the final outcomes could have a material impact on the company's reported results of operations. linde is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. these actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). such contingencies are significant and the accounting requires considerable management judgments in analyzing each matter to assess the likely outcome and the need for establishing appropriate liabilities and providing adequate disclosures. linde believes it records and/or discloses such contingencies as appropriate and has reasonably estimated its liabilities. new accounting standards see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning new accounting standards and the impact of the implementation of these standards on the company's financial statements. fair value measurements linde does not expect changes in the aggregate fair value of its financial assets and liabilities to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 51 table of contents supplemental pro forma income statement information to assist with a discussion of the 2019 and 2018 results on a comparable basis, certain supplemental unaudited pro forma income statement information is provided on both a consolidated and segment basis (referred to as "pro forma income statement information" or "pro forma information"). the pro forma information has been prepared on a basis consistent with article 11 of regulation s-x, assuming the merger and the merger-related divestitures had been consummated on january 1, 2018 and includes adjustments for (1) the preliminary purchase accounting impacts of the merger, including increased amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, increased depreciation on property, plant and equipment and lower interest expense due to revaluing existing debt to fair value, (2) conversion to us gaap from ifrs for linde ag, (3) accounting policy alignment, (4) the elimination of the impact of transactions between praxair and linde ag, (5) the elimination of the effect of events that are directly attributable to the merger agreement and (6) the elimination of the effect of consummated and probable divestitures required as a condition of the approval for the merger. in preparing this pro forma information, the historical financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma adjustments that are (i) directly attributable to the business combination and other transactions presented herein, such as the merger-related divestitures, (ii) factually supportable, and (iii) expected to have a continuing impact on the combined entity's consolidated results. the pro forma information is based on management's assumptions and is presented for illustrative purposes and does not purport to represent what the results of operations would actually have been if the merger and merger-related divestitures had occurred as of the dates indicated or what the results would be for any future periods. also, the pro forma information does not include the impact of any revenue, cost or other operating synergies that may result from the merger or any related restructuring costs. events that are not expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results (e.g. inventory step-up costs, non-recurring income/charges) are excluded from the unaudited pro forma information. the unaudited pro forma income statement has been presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what linde's results of operation actually would have been had the merger been completed on january 1, 2018. in addition, the unaudited pro forma income statement does not purport to project the future operating results of the company. the pro forma income statement information are included in the following schedules: - year ended december 31, 2019 pro forma income statement information - year ended december 31, 2018 pro forma income statement information refer to an earlier section in this md&amp;a titled " merger of praxair, inc. and linde ag". 52 table of contents year to date december 31, 2019 pro forma income statement information (millions of dollars, except per share data) (unaudited) pro forma adjustments linde plc reported divestitures (a) other total pro forma sales $ 28,228 $ (65 ) $ $ (65 ) $ 28,163 cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation 16,644 (48 ) (12 ) (b) (60 ) 16,584 selling, general and administrative 3,457 (1 ) (1 ) 3,456 as a % of sales 12.2 % 12.3 % depreciation and amortization 4,675 4,675 research and development 184 184 cost reduction programs and other charges 567 (190 ) (c) (190 ) 377 net gain on sale of businesses 164 (164 ) (d) (164 ) other income (expense) - net 68 68 operating profit 2,933 (16 ) 38 22 2,955 operating margin 10.4 % 10.5 % net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service costs (32 ) (97 ) (e) (97 ) (129 ) interest expense - net 38 38 income taxes 769 (5 ) (15 ) (f) (20 ) 749 effective tax rate 26.3 % 24.6 % income from equity investments 114 114 noncontrolling interests from continuing operations (89 ) (89 ) income from continuing operations $ 2,183 $ (11 ) $ 150 $ 139 $ 2,322 diluted shares outstanding 545,170 545,170 545,170 diluted eps from continuing operations $ 4.00 $ 0.25 $ 4.25 segment sales americas $ 10,993 $ (4 ) $ $ (4 ) $ 10,989 emea 6,643 6,643 apac 5,839 (60 ) (60 ) 5,779 engineering 2,799 2,799 other 1,954 (1 ) (1 ) 1,953 segment sales $ 28,228 $ (65 ) $ $ (65 ) $ 28,163 segment operating profit americas $ 2,578 $ (1 ) $ $ (1 ) $ 2,577 emea 1,367 1,367 apac 1,198 (14 ) (14 ) 1,184 engineering 390 390 other (245 ) (1 ) (1 ) (246 ) segment operating profit 5,288 (16 ) (16 ) 5,272 cost reduction programs and other charges (567 ) (567 ) net gain on sale of businesses 164 164 purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (1,952 ) (1,952 ) total operating profit $ 2,933 $ (16 ) $ $ (16 ) $ 2,917 53 table of contents 2019 pro forma adjustments (a) to eliminate the results of praxair's merger-related divestitures. (b) to eliminate the impact of the inventory step-up recorded in purchase accounting for the merger. this item is nonrecurring in nature, directly attributable to the merger and occurred within one year of the transaction. (c) to eliminate the transaction costs and other charges related to the merger. these transaction costs are nonrecurring, directly attributable to the merger, and incremental. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. (d) to eliminate the gain on merger related divestitures. (e) to eliminate pension settlement charges related to the merger. (f) to eliminate the income tax impacts of other adjustments. 54 table of contents year to date december 31, 2018 pro forma income statement information (millions of dollars, except per share data) (unaudited) pro forma adjustments linde plc (a) linde ag (b) divestitures (c) purchase accounting (d) other total pro forma linde plc sales $ 14,836 $ 16,929 $ (3,598 ) $ $ (83 ) (e) $ 13,248 $ 28,084 cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation 9,020 10,515 (2,155 ) (451 ) (e) 7,909 16,929 selling, general and administrative 1,629 2,370 (364 ) 2,006 3,635 as a % of sales 11.0 % 12.9 % depreciation and amortization 1,830 1,570 (337 ) 1,861 3,094 4,924 research and development 113 88 88 201 cost reduction programs and other charges 309 323 (576 ) (f) (253 ) 56 other income (expense) - net 3,312 204 (3,294 ) (j) (3,090 ) 222 operating profit 5,247 2,267 (742 ) (1,861 ) (2,350 ) (2,686 ) 2,561 operating margin 35.4 % 9.1 % net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service costs (4 ) (159 ) (2 ) (161 ) (165 ) interest expense - net 202 332 (72 ) (83 ) 177 379 income taxes 817 634 (87 ) (430 ) (264 ) (g) (147 ) 670 effective tax rate 16.2 % 28.5 % income from equity investments 56 80 (31 ) (53 ) (4 ) 52 noncontrolling interests from continuing operations (15 ) (144 ) 19 140 15 income from continuing operations $ 4,273 $ 1,396 $ (593 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (2,086 ) $ (2,544 ) $ 1,729 diluted shares outstanding 334,127 221,024 (h) 555,151 diluted eps from continuing operations $ 12.79 $ (9.68 ) (h) $ 3.11 segment sales americas $ 8,017 $ 4,352 $ (1,768 ) $ (62 ) (e) $ 2,522 $ 10,539 emea 2,644 5,809 (1,463 ) 1 (e) 4,347 6,991 apac 2,446 3,851 (329 ) (18 ) (e) 3,504 5,950 engineering 459 2,333 (e) 2,333 2,792 other 1,270 584 (38 ) (4 ) (e) 542 1,812 segment sales $ 14,836 $ 16,929 $ (3,598 ) $ $ (83 ) $ 13,248 $ 28,084 segment operating profit americas $ 2,053 $ 714 $ (327 ) $ (7 ) (i) $ 380 $ 2,433 emea 481 1,230 (324 ) (43 ) (i) 863 1,344 apac 465 686 (82 ) (40 ) (i) 564 1,029 engineering 14 276 (5 ) (i) 271 285 other (37 ) (316 ) (9 ) 67 (i) (258 ) (295 ) segment operating profit 2,976 2,590 (742 ) (28 ) 1,820 4,796 cost reduction programs and other charges (309 ) (323 ) 632 309 gain on sale of businesses 3,294 (3,294 ) (3,294 ) purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (714 ) 714 714 total operating profit $ 5,247 $ 2,267 $ (742 ) $ (1,976 ) $ (451 ) $ 4,796 55 table of contents 2018 pro forma adjustments (a) to include linde plc consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2018. note that the results include the performance of praxair's european industrial gases business through december 3, 2018 and the results of linde ag from october 31, 2018 (merger date) through december 31, 2018. the adjustments reflect reclassifications to conform to linde plc's reporting format. (b) to include linde ag consolidated results for the period prior to the merger date at october 31, 2018. the adjustments reflect reclassifications to conform to linde plc's reporting format and adjustments from ifrs to u.s. gaap. (c) to eliminate the results of merger-related divestitures required by regulatory authorities to secure approval for the merger. these divestitures include the majority of praxair's european industrial gases business (completed december 3, 2018), a significant portion of linde ag's america's industrial gases business (completed on march 1, 2019), select assets of linde ag's south korean industrial gases business (completed april 30, 2019), as well as certain divestitures of other praxair and linde ag businesses in asia. (d) to include purchase accounting adjustments for the period from january 1, 2018 to october 30, 2018 (prior to the merger). this relates to (i) additional depreciation and amortization related to the increased value of of property, plant and equipment and increased basis of intangible assets, (ii) interest expense impacts related to the fair value of debt, (iii) the tax impacts related to the non-gaap adjustments above, (iv) income from equity investments equity related to the fair value of equity investments, and (v) noncontrolling interests adjustments related to the fair value adjustments above. purchase accounting impacts are not included in the definition of segment operating profit; therefore, no pro forma adjustment is required for segment reporting. (e) to eliminate sales between praxair and linde ag for the period prior to the merger date at october 31, 2018 (january 1, 2018 to october 30, 2018). (e) also includes a $368 million impact for the fair value step-up of inventories acquired in the merger. this charge is recorded in cost of sales and subsequently eliminated. (f) to eliminate the transaction costs and other charges related to the merger. (g) to reflect the income tax impact of the above pro forma adjustments. (h) to reflect the impact on diluted shares outstanding and diluted eps related to ordinary shares issues to linde ag shareholders in connection with the merger. (i) to eliminate other (income) charges not included in segment operating profit, primarily related to a gain on a sale of business in emea and a gain on a sale of asset in apac. (j) to eliminate the gain on merger related divestitures. non-gaap financial measures the following non-gaap measures are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial information by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company's financial leverage and operating performance. special items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business performance are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. definitions of these non-gaap measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar gaap measures. the non-gaap measures in the following reconciliations are presented in the selected financial data (item 6) or this md&amp;a. adjusted amounts certain amounts for 2019, 2018, and 2017 have been included for reference purposes and to facilitate the calculations contained herein. (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 year ended december 31, adjusted pro forma operating profit and margin reported operating profit $ 2,933 $ 5,247 $ 2,444 pro forma adjustments (a) 22 (2,686 ) n/a pro forma 2,955 2,561 n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: cost reduction programs and other charges 377 53 52 less: net gain on sale of businesses (51 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) 1,940 2,233 total adjustments 2,317 2,235 52 adjusted pro forma operating profit $ 5,272 $ 4,796 n/a 56 table of contents adjusted operating profit $ 2,496 reported percent change (44.1 )% 114.7 % adjusted pro forma percent change 9.9 % n/a reported sales $ 28,228 $ 14,836 $ 11,358 pro forma sales (a) 28,163 28,084 n/a reported operating margin 10.4 % 35.4 % 21.5 % pro forma operating margin 10.5 % 9.1 % n/a adjusted pro forma operating margin 18.7 % 17.1 % n/a adjusted pro forma depreciation and amortization reported depreciation and amortization $ 4,675 $ 1,830 $ 1,184 pro forma adjustments (a) 3,094 n/a pro forma 4,675 4,924 n/a non-gaap adjustments: less: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) (1,940 ) (2,233 ) adjusted pro forma depreciation and amortization $ 2,735 $ 2,691 n/a adjusted depreciation and amortization $ 1,184 adjusted pro forma net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost reported net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost $ (32 ) $ (4 ) $ (4 ) pro forma adjustments (a) (97 ) (161 ) n/a pro forma (129 ) (165 ) n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: pension plan reorganization charge - net (10 ) (14 ) (2 ) total adjustments (10 ) (14 ) (2 ) adjusted pro forma net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service costs $ (139 ) $ (179 ) n/a adjusted net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service costs $ (6 ) adjusted pro forma interest expense - net reported interest expense - net $ 38 $ 202 $ 161 pro forma adjustments (a) 177 n/a pro forma 38 379 n/a non-gaap adjustments: less: bond redemption (26 ) less: loss on hedge portfolio unwind (174 ) add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) 96 100 total adjustments 96 (100 ) adjusted pro forma interest expense - net $ 134 $ 279 n/a adjusted interest expense - net $ 161 adjusted pro forma income taxes(b) reported income taxes $ 769 $ 817 $ 1,026 pro forma adjustments (a) (20 ) (147 ) n/a pro forma 749 670 n/a non-gaap adjustments: 57 table of contents add: bond redemption 6 add: pension settlement charge 3 1 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) 447 516 add: cost reduction programs and other charges 71 (1 ) 4 add: tax reform 17 (394 ) total adjustments 518 541 (389 ) adjusted pro forma income taxes $ 1,267 $ 1,211 n/a adjusted income taxes $ 637 adjusted pro forma effective tax rate (b) reported income before income taxes and equity investments $ 2,927 $ 5,049 $ 2,287 pro forma adjustments (a) 119 (2,702 ) n/a pro forma 3,046 2,347 n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: bond redemption 26 add: pension settlement charge 14 2 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) 1,844 2,133 add: cost reduction programs and other charges 377 53 52 add: pension plan reorganization charge - net 10 add: loss on hedge portfolio unwind 174 less: net gain on sale of businesses (51 ) total adjustments 2,231 2,349 54 adjusted pro forma income before income taxes and equity investments $ 5,277 $ 4,696 n/a adjusted income before income taxes and equity investments $ 2,341 reported income taxes $ 769 $ 817 $ 1,026 reported effective tax rate 26.3 % 16.2 % 44.9 % adjusted pro forma income taxes $ 1,267 $ 1,211 n/a adjusted income taxes $ 637 adjusted pro forma effective tax rate 24.0 % 25.8 % n/a adjusted effective tax rate 27.2 % income from equity investments reported income from equity investments $ 114 $ 56 $ 47 pro forma adjustments (a) (4 ) n/a pro forma 114 52 n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) 57 64 total adjustments 57 64 adjusted pro forma income from equity investments $ 171 $ 116 n/a adjusted income from equity investments $ 47 adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (89 ) $ (15 ) $ (61 ) pro forma adjustments (a) 15 n/a pro forma (89 ) n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: cost reduction programs and other charges (35 ) 58 table of contents add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (d) (54 ) (168 ) total adjustments (89 ) (168 ) adjusted pro forma noncontrolling interests from continuing operations $ (178 ) $ (168 ) n/a adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing $ (61 ) adjusted income from continuing operations (c) reported income from continuing operations $ 2,183 $ 4,273 $ 1,247 pro forma adjustments (a) 139 (2,544 ) n/a pro forma 2,322 1,729 n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: pension settlement charge 11 1 add: cost reduction programs and other charges 281 53 48 less: net gain on sale of business (50 ) add: bond redemption 20 add: loss on hedge portfolio unwind 174 less: other tax charges (17 ) 394 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 1,400 1,513 total adjustments 1,681 1,704 443 adjusted pro forma income from continuing operations $ 4,003 $ 3,433 n/a adjusted income from continuing operations $ 1,690 adjusted pro forma diluted eps from continuing operations (c) reported diluted eps from continuing operations $ 4.00 $ 12.79 $ 4.32 pro forma adjustments (a) 0.25 (9.68 ) n/a pro forma 4.25 3.11 n/a non-gaap adjustments: add: pension settlement charge 0.03 add: cost reduction programs and other charges 0.52 0.09 0.17 less: net gain on sale of business (0.09 ) add: bond redemption 0.04 add: loss on hedge portfolio unwind 0.31 less income tax reform (0.03 ) 1.36 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 2.57 2.73 total adjustments 3.09 3.08 1.53 adjusted pro forma diluted eps from continuing operations $ 7.34 $ 6.19 n/a adjusted diluted eps from continuing operations $ 5.85 adjusted pro forma ebitda and % of sales income from continuing operations $ 2,183 $ 4,273 $ 1,247 add: noncontrolling interests related to continuing operations 89 15 61 add: net pension and opeb cost (benefit), excluding service cost (32 ) (4 ) (4 ) add: interest expense 38 202 161 add: income taxes 769 817 1,026 add: depreciation and amortization 4,675 1,830 1,184 ebitda from continuing operations 7,722 7,133 3,675 pro forma adjustments (a) add: linde ag consolidated results 3,917 n/a add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 12 315 n/a 59 table of contents add: cost reduction programs and other charges 190 576 n/a less: net gain on sale of businesses (164 ) (3,294 ) n/a less: divestitures (16 ) (1,110 ) n/a pro forma adjustments 22 404 n/a pro forma ebitda from continuing operations 7,744 7,537 n/a non-gaap adjustments: less: net gain on sale of business (51 ) add: cost reduction programs and other charges 377 53 52 add: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag 57 64 total adjustments 434 66 52 adjusted pro forma ebitda from continuing operations $ 8,178 $ 7,603 n/a adjusted ebitda from continuing operations $ 3,727 reported sales $ 28,228 $ 14,836 $ 11,358 pro forma sales $ 28,163 $ 28,084 n/a % of sales ebitda from continuing operations 27.4 % 48.1 % 32.4 % pro forma ebitda from continuing operations 27.5 % 26.8 % n/a adjusted pro forma ebitda from continuing operations 29.0 % 27.1 % n/a adjusted ebitda from continuing operations 32.8 % (a) see pro forma income statement information in the preceding sections. (b) the income tax expense (benefit) on the non-gaap pre-tax adjustments was determined using the applicable tax rates for the jurisdictions that were utilized in calculating the gaap income tax expense (benefit) and included both current and deferred income tax amounts. (c) net of income taxes which are shown separately in adjusted income taxes and effective tax rate . (d) the company believes that its non-gaap measures excluding purchase accounting impacts - linde ag are useful to investors because: (i) the business combination was a merger of equals in an all-stock merger transaction, with no cash consideration, (ii) the company is managed on a geographic basis and the results of certain geographies are more heavily impacted by purchase accounting than others, causing results that are not comparable at the reportable segment level, therefore, the impacts of purchasing accounting adjustments to each segment vary and are not comparable within the company and when compared to other companies in similar regions, (iii) business management is evaluated and variable compensation is determined based on results excluding purchase accounting impacts, and; (iv) it is important to investors and analysts to understand the purchase accounting impacts to the financial statements. a summary of each of the adjustments made for purchase accounting impacts - linde ag are as follows: adjusted operating profit and margin: the purchase accounting adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2019 include (i) a $12 million adjustment for the increase in cost of sales related to the fair value step up of inventories acquired in the merger (included as a pro forma adjustment), and (ii) $1,940 in depreciation and amortization related to the fair value step up of fixed assets and intangible assets (primarily customer related) acquired in the merger. adjusted interest expense - net : relates to the amortization of the fair value of debt acquired in the merger. adjusted income taxes and effective tax rate: relates to the current and deferred income tax impact on the adjustments discussed above. the income tax expense (benefit) on the non-gaap pre-tax adjustments was determined using the applicable tax rates for the jurisdictions that were utilized in calculating the gaap income tax expense (benefit) and included both current and deferred income tax amounts. adjusted income from equity investments: represents the amortization of increased fair value on equity investments related to depreciable and amortizable assets. adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations: represents the noncontrolling interests' ownership portion of the adjustments described above determined on an entity by entity basis. 60 table of contents net debt and adjusted net debt net debt is a financial liquidity measure used by investors, financial analysts and management to evaluate the ability of a company to repay its debt. purchase accounting impacts have been excluded as they are non-cash and do not have an impact on liquidity. december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (millions of dollars) debt $ 13,956 $ 15,296 less: cash and cash equivalents (2,700 ) (4,466 ) net debt 11,256 10,830 less: purchase accounting impacts - linde ag (195 ) (291 ) adjusted net debt $ 11,061 $ 10,539 61 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk linde is exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. the objective of financial risk management at linde is to minimize the negative impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the company's earnings, cash flows and equity. to manage these risks, linde uses various derivative financial instruments, including interest-rate swaps, treasury rate locks, currency swaps, forward contracts, and commodity contracts. linde only uses commonly traded and non-leveraged instruments. these contracts are entered into primarily with major banking institutions thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. also, see notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a more complete description of linde's accounting policies and use of such instruments. the following discussion presents the sensitivity of the market value, earnings and cash flows of linde's financial instruments to hypothetical changes in interest and exchange rates assuming these changes occurred at december 31, 2019 . the range of changes chosen for these discussions reflects linde's view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period. market values represent the present values of projected future cash flows based on interest rate and exchange rate assumptions. interest rate risk at december 31, 2019 , linde had debt totaling $13,956 million ( $15,296 million at december 31, 2018 ). for fixed-rate instruments, interest rate changes affect the fair market value but do not impact earnings or cash flows. conversely, for floating-rate instruments, interest rate changes generally do not affect the fair market value of the instrument but impact future earnings and cash flows, assuming that other factors are held constant. at december 31, 2019 , including the impact of derivatives, linde had fixed-rate debt of $10,799 million and floating-rate debt of $3,157 million , representing 77% and 23%, respectively, of total debt. at december 31, 2018 , linde had fixed-rate debt of $12,565 million and floating-rate debt of $2,731 million, representing 82% and 18%, respectively, of total debt. fixed rate debt in order to mitigate interest rate risk, when considered appropriate interest-rate swaps are entered into as hedges of underlying financial instruments to effectively change the characteristics of the interest rate without actually changing the underlying financial instrument. at december 31, 2019 , linde had fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps outstanding that were designated as hedging instruments of the underlying debt issuances - refer to note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. this sensitivity analysis assumes that, holding all other variables constant (such as foreign exchange rates, swaps and debt levels), a one hundred basis point increase in interest rates would decrease the unrealized fair market value of the fixed-rate debt portfolio by approximately $473 million ($594 million in 2018 ). a one hundred basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $73 million increase to derivative assets recorded. variable rate debt at december 31, 2019 , the after-tax earnings and cash flows impact of a one hundred basis point increase in interest rates, including offsetting impact of derivatives, on the variable-rate debt portfolio would be approximately $48 million ($24 million in 2018). foreign currency risk linde's exchange-rate exposures result primarily from its investments and ongoing operations in latin america (primarily brazil, chile and colombia), europe (primarily germany, scandinavia, and the united kingdom), canada, mexico, asia pacific (primarily australia, china) and other business transactions such as the procurement of equipment from foreign sources. linde frequently utilizes currency contracts to hedge these exposures. at december 31, 2019 , linde had a notional amount outstanding of $9,713 million ($9,412 million at december 31, 2018 ) related to foreign exchange contracts. the majority of these were to hedge recorded balance sheet exposures, primarily intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. holding all other variables constant, if there were a 10% increase in foreign-currency exchange rates for the portfolio, the fair market value of foreign-currency contracts outstanding at december 31, 2019 would increase by approximately $194 million and at december 31, 2018 would decrease by approximately $307 million, which would be largely offset by an offsetting loss or gain on the foreign-currency fluctuation of the underlying exposure being hedged. 62 table of contents