risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65risk factors 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70risk factors 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68risk factors 18 risk factors in evaluating our business, the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission should be considered carefully. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. this report contains forward-looking statements; please refer to the cautionary statements made under the heading "special note regarding forward-looking statements" for more information on the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements. risks relating to our business the continuing worldwide macroeconomic and political uncertainty, as well as existing tariffs and trade wars, may adversely affect our business and prospects, both domestically and internationally. continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. uncertainty about global economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and countries with government-sponsored healthcare systems, may cause decreased demand for our products and services and increased competition, which could result in lower sales volume and downward pressure on the prices for our products, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of new technologies. a weakening of macroeconomic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers, which could result in interruptions in supply. market acceptance of our medical products in the u.s. and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient need for our products and procedures, the reimbursement of patients' medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. the continuing uncertainty surrounding global economic conditions and financial markets may cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums, co-payments and deductibles may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. also, the elective nature of the medical aesthetics procedures subjects our business to increased volatility due to macroeconomic conditions. changes in policy in the u.s. and other countries regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, could also negatively impact our business. in 2018 and 2019, the u.s. imposed tariffs on goods imported from china and certain other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products, prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. the implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. the impending exit of the united kingdom ( uk ) from the european union ( eu ) (commonly known as brexit ), has created uncertainties affecting business operations in the uk an d the eu. until the terms of the uk's exit from the eu are determined, including any transition period, it is difficult to predict its impact. for example, as a result of brexit, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges. we have a manufacturing facility in the uk, and, depending on the terms of brexit, we could become subject to export tariffs and regulatory restrictions that could increase the costs and time related to doing business in europe. we have increased inventories of certain products and components in anticipation of brexit, which has impacted our financial results. additionally, brexit could result in the uk or the eu significantly altering its regulations affecting the clearance or approval of our products that are developed or manufactured in the uk. any new regulations could add time and expense to the conduct of our business, as well as the process by which our products receive regulatory approval in the uk, the eu and elsewhere. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what economic, financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the uk from the eu would have and how such withdrawal may affect us. our international sales are often denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, uk pound and renminbi. changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the increase in the value of the dollar against any such foreign currencies, may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the u.s and associated cash flows and our ability to compete effectively in foreign markets. in addition, such fluctuations can also result in foreign currency exchange losses. we cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. we currently have limited hedging arrangements in place to mitigate some of the impact of negative exchange rates. 18 table of contents there is also uncertainty surrounding u.s. presidential and congressional elections in 2020 and the impact on existing and future healthcare legislation. while we cannot predict the outcome of the elections or any resulting legislative changes, such changes could have a material impact on our business. our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products, enhance our existing products and integrate acquired businesses. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. our growth depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for or enhancements of existing products, either through internal research and development or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. the development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. the results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory clearances and approvals and reimbursement in the u.s. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain, maintain, protect and enforce appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, gain and maintain market approval of our products and access capital. if we are not able to successfully enhance existing products or develop new products, our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. we cannot assure that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance, and we may be unable to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment in such products and technologies. additionally, as part of our long-term strategy, we are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities to further expand our presence in or diversify into priority growth areas by accessing new products and technologies. we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms. further, once we acquire a business, any inability to successfully integrate the business, decreases in customer loyalty or product orders, failure to retain and develop the acquired workforce, failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls or unknown or contingent liabilities could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. the integration of an acquired business whether or not successful, requires significant efforts which may result in additional expenses and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel from other projects. these transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any past or future transaction will be successful. for example, we were unable to achieve our anticipated benefits and results following our acquisition of cynosure (our medical aesthetics business), and as a result, we recorded impairment charges in excess of $1.4 billion, in the aggregate, in fiscal 2018 and 2019. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could be adversely affected, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. if we fail to develop, successfully manufacture and launch new products, enhance existing products or identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses and products, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory and quality requirements, our ability to sell our products and our business will be harmed. the manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities. these difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products and may result in increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. in addition, production of these newer products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise, which we may be unable to develop. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. in determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on historical experience, inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors 19 table of contents (including the anticipation of brexit). there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we and our distributors require, which could harm our business and results of operations. in addition, maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the fda, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the fda and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to the fda's quality system regulation and good manufacturing practices. we or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet applicable specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. additionally, a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could divert managerial and financial resources, be difficult and costly to correct, result in the suspension of sales of certain of our products, harm our reputation and the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. our reliance on one third-party manufacturer for certain of our product lines and a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components and subassemblies for our products exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. we have sole source third-party manufacturers for each of our panther and tigris molecular diagnostics instruments and for our skeletal health products. similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations. for example, we rely on a single source supplier for alexandrite rods used in the lasers for our elite and picosure systems, our smartcool cooling systems for our sculpsure laser system and the slt ii laser system that we integrate with our own proprietary software and delivery systems for our smartlipo triplex, cellulaze and precisiontx systems. we have no firm long-term volume commitments with certain of our sole source suppliers, including the manufacturers of our panther or tigris instruments. similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations, and some of these suppliers are competitors. for example, f. hoffmann-laroche ltd, a direct competitor of our diagnostics business, is the parent company of roche diagnostics corporation, our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified nat diagnostic assays. ge healthcare bio-sciences corp., an affiliate of ge, supplies us with the membranes used in connection with our thinprep product line. ge is a direct competitor with our breast health and skeletal health businesses. if any of sole source manufacturers or suppliers, or our other of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers, experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with goods in sufficient quantities, then shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. moreover, the failure of a supplier to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely delivery of goods at an acceptable price, or an interruption in the delivery of goods from such a supplier could adversely affect our business and results of operations. obtaining alternative sources of supply of products, components, subassemblies or raw materials could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. we may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers or suppliers to replace existing manufacturers or suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. we may not be able to find contract manufacturers or suppliers that meet our needs, including regulatory requirements, and even if we do, the process of qualifying such alternative manufacturers and suppliers is often expensive and time consuming. as a result, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. we constantly monitor the dynamics of the economy, the healthcare industry and the markets in which we compete, and we continue to assess the key personnel that we believe are essential to our long-term success. if we fail to effectively manage our ongoing organizational and strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed. additionally, facilitating seamless leadership transitions for key positions is a critical factor in sustaining the success of an organization. if our succession planning efforts are not effective, it could adversely impact our business. moreover, in our industry, there is substantial competition for key personnel in the regions in which we operate and we may face increased competition for such employees. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly management or key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research 20 table of contents and development, operational or strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce our gross margins. other companies may develop products that are superior to and/or less expensive than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. some companies may have significant competitive advantages over us, which may make them more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, and physicians. such competitive advantages may include: greater brand recognition; larger or more established distribution networks and customer bases; a broader product portfolio, resulting in the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; higher levels of automation and greater installed bases of such equipment; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities and greater financial resources; and greater technical resources positioning them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the current environment of managed care, economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, together with current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures, may put additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative products, our business and prospects could be harmed. we operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in healthcare-related laws and regulations or our inability to obtain in a timely manner or at all u.s. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements could adversely affect our business and prospects. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. given the high level of regulatory oversight to which our products are subject, the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. in addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn. most medical devices cannot be marketed in the u.s. without 510(k) clearance or premarket approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. last year, we received a letter from the fda regarding the monalisa 21 table of contents touch laser and whether our existing 510(k) clearances adequately include certain claims made on our website. in connection with this inquiry, we elected to suspend marketing and distribution of our tempsure vitalia handpieces and single-use probes until we assessed the implications of recent fda considerations for devices in this category. this suspension had a negative impact on our revenue. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. for example, the eu has adopted the eu medical device regulation (the eu mdr ) and the in vitro diagnostic regulation (the eu ivdr ), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the area of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems and post-market surveillance. manufacturers of currently approved medical devices will have until may 2020 to meet the requirements of the eu mdr and until may 2022 to meet the eu ivdr. complying with the requirements of these regulations may require us to incur significant expenditures. failure to meet these requirements could adversely impact our business in the eu and other regions that tie their product registrations to the eu requirements. the regulatory environment in china is evolving, and officials in the chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. it is possible that the chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our china operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize the healthcare industry closely and that changes in laws, regulations or policies by governmental authorities may cause increased uncertainties and compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our business and operations. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats, computer viruses and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks, as well as cybersecurity failures resulting from human error and technological errors, pose a risk to the security of hologic and its customers, business partners and suppliers products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data on these products, systems and networks. as the perpetrators of such attacks become more capable, and as critical infrastructure is increasingly becoming digitized, the risks in this area continue to grow. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats, and there is no assurance that the impact from such threats will not be material. in addition to existing risks, the adoption of new technologies may also increase our exposure to cybersecurity breaches and failures. we also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations or customer-imposed controls. despite our implementation of controls to protect our systems and sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced, lost or corrupted data, employee errors and/or malfeasance (including misappropriation by departing employees) that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. data privacy and protection laws are evolving and present increasing compliance challenges, which increase our costs, affect our competitiveness and can expose us to substantial fines or other penalties. in addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action. although we have experienced occasional actual or attempted breaches of our computer systems, to date we do not believe any of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. the failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and the treatments facilitated by these products is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. these policies affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and technologies. even if we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless appropriate reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the u.s. and other countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products or denies coverage for those procedures 22 table of contents facilitated by our products, including price regulation, competitive bidding and tendering, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. healthcare cost containment legislation, including the associated rules and regulations, and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of any such legislation, could harm our business and prospects. the ongoing implementation of the patient protection and affordable care act, in the u.s., as well as state-level healthcare reform proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. these reforms include a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models. the impact of this healthcare reform legislation, and practices including price regulation, competitive pricing, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed care arrangements could harm our business and prospects, results of operations and/or financial condition. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the u.s. and in many foreign countries could limit the use of our products, reduce reimbursement available for such use, further tax the sale or use of our products, adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted, and further increase the administrative and financial burden of compliance. these reforms and cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could also have an adverse effect on our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. we cannot predict the specific healthcare programs and regulations that will be ultimately implemented by regional and national governments globally. however, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products and/or procedures using our products, reduce medical procedure volumes, increase cost containment pressures or impose taxes or additional costs on us or others in the healthcare sector could adversely affect our business and results of operations. guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations may reduce the use of our products. professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. if followed by healthcare providers and insurers, such publications could result in decreased use of our products. for example, in november 2012, the american congress of obstetrics and gynecologists, known as the acog, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in march 2012 by the u.s. preventative services task force, or the uspstf, and the american cancer society. we believe that these recommendations and guidelines may have contributed to increased screening intervals for cervical cancer, which we believe has and may continue to adversely affect our thinprep revenues. in addition, on october 20, 2015, the american cancer society issued new guidelines recommending that women start annual mammograms at age 45 instead of 40 and have a mammogram every two years instead of annually. this recommendation could result in a decrease in purchases of our mammography systems. if the u.s. medical device excise tax on medical devices is reinstated our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. the united states imposed a 2.3% excise tax on u.s. sales of class i, ii and iii medical devices beginning in january 2013. as such, this excise tax applied to the majority, if not all, of our products sold in the u.s. the implementation of the medical device tax was suspended for calendar years 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. the tax for sales after december 31, 2019 will be reinstated unless there is legislative effort to temporarily suspend or permanently repeal the tax. while the excise tax was in effect, it increased our costs of doing business, and its reinstatement would increase our operating expenses, impose significant additional administrative burdens and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could harm our business and prospects. the cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, which we expect will continue, including with respect to hospitals and clinical laboratories. this consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our customers. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the u.s. for a significant portion of our sales of diagnostics products. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical 23 table of contents laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest u.s. laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. in most cases, the manufacturing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers or suppliers are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage, which could harm our business and prospects. some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the u.s., including in costa rica and the uk. those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described herein. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the anti-kickback statute, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. similarly, the patient protection and affordable care act also includes stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. specifically, under one provision of the law, which is commonly referred to as the physician payment sunshine act, we are required to collect data on and annually report to cms certain payments or other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and annually report certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members. anti-kickback and false claims laws and the physician payment sunshine act prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended ("fcpa"), which prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering or making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. in many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the fcpa. our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the uk anti-bribery act. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal policies and procedures, we may not always prevent unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market. our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. international expansion is a key component of our growth strategy. in fiscal 2019, 24.7% of our revenue came from outside of the u.s. as we grow internationally, our future and existing international operations may subject us to a number of additional risks and expenses, any of which could harm our operating results. these risks and expenses include: political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; difficulties in developing staffing and simultaneously managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; governmental currency controls; 24 table of contents multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements); protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; the inability to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or favorable third-party reimbursement; operation in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices; the inability to effectively obtain, maintain, protect or enforce intellectual property rights, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, and the inability to otherwise protect against clone or knock off products; the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in china and other foreign countries; and lower margins on a number of our products sold outside of the u.s. our diagnostics segment depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce revenues in our diagnostics segment. although we do not currently have any customers that represent more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, a material portion of product sales in our diagnostics segment comes from (and we anticipate will continue to come from) a limited number of customers, one of whom accounted for 14.5% of our diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2019. the loss of any of these key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to these customers, could significantly reduce our diagnostics segment revenues or profitability. if we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed and our revenue could be adversely impacted. we have relied and/or expect to rely on corporate collaborators for funding development, marketing, distribution, and the commercialization of certain products. if any of our corporate collaborators were to breach, terminate, fail to renew our agreements or otherwise fail to properly conduct its obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. further, we would be required to devote additional resources to product development or marketing, to terminate some development programs or to seek alternative corporate collaborations. any corporate collaboration may divert management time and resources. in some instances, we have entered into corporate collaborations with certain partners or companies that could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. any of the foregoing risks could harm our business and prospects. the markets for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products may not develop as expected. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products or technologies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products or technologies; the perception of our products as compared to other products; recommendation and support for the use of our products by influential customers, such as highly regarded hospitals, physicians and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; 25 table of contents competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products our business and prospects could be harmed. our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. for example, our patented tma technology is based on technology we licensed from stanford university. we anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. if our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate the technology. similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license. our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. in addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our nat diagnostic assays may be economically viable. if we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. our products and manufacturing processes may require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain the additional intellectual property rights necessary to commercialize our products. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. the pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that do issue will be challenged or invalidated. the patents that we own or license could also be subjected to invalidation proceedings or similar disputes, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. in addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve, particularly in the field of biotechnology. as a result, patents might not issue from certain of our patent applications or from applications licensed to us. we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our u.s. patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. the rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the u.s. are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. even if our proprietary information is protected 26 table of contents by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. within our medical aesthetics business, we jointly own certain patents and patent applications with third parties. in the absence of an agreement with each co-owner of jointly owned patent rights, we will be subject to default rules pertaining to joint ownership. some countries require the consent of all joint owners to exploit, license or assign jointly owned patents, and if we are unable to obtain that consent from the joint owners, we may be unable to exploit the invention or to license or assign our rights under these patents and patent applications in those countries. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. we are and have been involved in patent litigation and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. if any of our strategic relationships terminate without replacement or if our strategic partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. we do not control our distributors, and these parties may not be successful in marketing our products. these parties may fail to commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. if we fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. we may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell and markets we serve; regulatory approval and compliance of products; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; 27 table of contents complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to as u.s. gaap; asset impairments; contingent consideration charges; restructuring and consolidation charges; debt refinancing charges and expenses; and seasonality of sales of certain of our products. customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. failure to comply with laws relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards related to the transmission of electronic health data, may require us to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third-party payors. these standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. outside the u.s., we are impacted by privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. more privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. in the eu, increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules have been enacted. the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) applies uniformly across the eu and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances. the gdpr also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the eu to comply with eu privacy and data protection rules. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products for which we may not have adequate insurance. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product's competitive position in the market. the sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in inaccurate test results or the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management's attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products and could harm our business and prospects. 28 table of contents because we do not require training for users of our non-invasive medical aesthetics products, and we sell these products to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of these products, which could harm our reputation and our business. federal regulations allow us to sell our medical aesthetics products to or on the order of practitioners licensed by law to use or order the use of a prescription device. the definition of licensed practitioners varies from state to state. as a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training and, in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. outside the u.s., many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. we do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor can we require that direct medical supervision occur. we and our distributors offer product training sessions, but neither we nor our distributors require purchasers or operators of our non-invasive products to attend training sessions. the lack of required training and the purchase and use of our non-invasive products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation. we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including related to our use and recycling of hazardous materials and the composition of our products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds, and the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in such event, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. from time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. we continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. these regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the eu such as the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or rohs, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products we manufacture, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, or weee, which requires the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products we manufacture. these and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in japan, china and various states of the u.s. may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. these redesigns or the use of alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions, result in additional costs or have other similar effects. we are also subject to other substantial regulation relating to environmental, health and safety matters, including occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. we may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and future regulations, which may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operation. an adverse change in the projected cash flows from our business units or the business climate in which they operate could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. at least annually, we review the carrying value of our goodwill, and for other long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present, to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. in addition, the deterioration of a company's market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. we assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and in evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. during fiscal 2019, we identified indicators of impairment for our medical aesthetics reporting unit as a result of reductions in forecasts during the year, and in connection with our efforts to sell the business that began prior to the end of fiscal 2019. we executed a definitive agreement on november 20, 2019 to sell the business . the definitive agreement contains representations and warranties and covenants customary for a transaction of this nature, and the completion of the sale is subject to customary closing conditions. however, we cannot assure that we will be able to complete this transaction on a timely basis, if at all. although this agreement was signed subsequent to the balance sheet date, we concluded that it provided evidence regarding the estimate of fair value of the asset group at september 28, 2019 and that there were no events that occurred between september 28, 2019 and the date we entered into the definitive agreement that would significantly affect the fair value of the asset group. as a result of these indicators of impairment, we recorded total impairment charges of $685.4 million in fiscal 2019. 29 table of contents although we believe that we use reasonable methodologies for developing assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. any significant adverse change regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and discount rates used in valuing our reporting units could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic uncertainty could negatively affect our anticipated future cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each of our reporting units to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test during fiscal 2020. we cannot assure we will be able to close our pending sale of cynosure on a timely basis, if at all. our pending sale of cynosure is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, including the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the purchase and sale agreement, the failure of the parties to the transaction to satisfy conditions to completion of the proposed transaction, the risk that regulatory or other approvals are delayed or subject to terms and conditions that are not anticipated. as a result, we cannot assure that the pending transaction will be completed on a timely basis, if at all. the purchase price is subject to adjustment and may be different than we anticipate, and we may incur unexpected liabilities in connection with the transaction. changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact the company's operating results. we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by numerous factors including a change in, or the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a change in our geographic earnings mix, or a change in the measurement of our deferred taxes. risks relating to our indebtedness we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, which limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. as of september 28, 2019 , we had approximately $3.1 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness outstanding. we also have other contractual obligations. this significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we participate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions or other general corporate purposes. in addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain certain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to: incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends, repurchase our common stock, or make other distributions or restricted payments; make certain investments; agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries; sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with our affiliates; create liens; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. 30 table of contents our amended and restated credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our amended and restated credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including our outstanding notes. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we can give no assurance that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these alternative strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. as of september 28, 2019, approximately $1.7 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represented the outstanding principal under our term loan under our 2018 credit agreement and amounts outstanding under our accounts receivable securitization program, was subject to floating interest rates. we currently have certain hedging arrangements in the form of interest rate cap and interest rate swap agreements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates. the interest rate cap agreements hedge $1.0 billion of principal under our amended and restated credit agreement and have a december 2019 termination date and december 2020 termination date for the interest rate cap agreements entered into in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019, respectively. in fiscal 2019, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge $1.0 billion of principal under our amended and restated credit agreement with an effective date of december 2020 and termination date of december 2023. the proposed discontinuation or replacement of libor would require us to amend certain agreements and may otherwise adversely affect our business. the uk financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. changes in the method of calculating libor, or the replacement of libor with an alternative rate or benchmark, may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs. this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. if changes are made to the method of calculating libor or libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain contracts, including our credit agreement and related interest rate swap agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative rate or benchmark would be negotiated. this may result in an increase to our interest expense. risks relating to our common stock provisions in our charter, bylaws, and indebtedness may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 31 table of contents our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the u.s. or worldwide economy; our stock repurchase program; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future; and the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. in addition, the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech and life sciences companies, have historically experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, equity investments, forward foreign exchange and option contracts, interest rate cap and interest rate swap agreements, insurance contracts, accounts payable and debt obligations. except for our outstanding 2025 and 2028 senior notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximate their carrying amount. the fair value of our 2025 and 2028 senior notes was approximately $ 975.5 million and $ 417.0 million , respectively. amounts outstanding under our 2018 credit agreement and securitization program of $1.50 billion and $234.0 million aggregate principal, respectively, as of september 28, 2019 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our 2025 and 2028 senior notes and 2018 credit agreement, as well as under our accounts receivable securitization program. the 2025 and 2028 senior notes have fixed interest rates. borrowings under our 2018 credit agreement currently bear interest at the eurocurrency rate (i.e., libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.375% per annum. borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization program currently bear interest at libor plus the applicable margin of 0.7% . as of september 28, 2019 , there was $1.50 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the 2018 credit agreement and $234.0 million aggregate principal outstanding under the securitization program. since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. a 10% adverse movement (increase in libor rate) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $3.6 million. we entered into multiple interest rate cap agreements and an interest rate swap agreement to help mitigate the interest rate volatility associated with the variable rate interest on the amounts outstanding. the critical terms of the interest rate caps and interest rate swap were designed to mirror the terms of our libor-based borrowings under the 2018 credit agreement and prior credit agreements, and therefore the interest rate caps and interest rate swap are highly effective at offsetting the cash flows being hedged. we designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability of the libor-based interest payments on $1.0 billion of principal. the interest rate cap contracts expire on december 27, 2019 and december 23, 2020, and the interest rate swap contract expires on december 17, 2023. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the united states as well as manufacturing facilities in costa rica and the united kingdom. our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the euro, u.s. dollar, uk pound and renminbi. the majority of our foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the local currency, although certain foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the u.s. dollar based on the nature of their operations or functions. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we have executed forward foreign currency contracts to hedge a portion of results denominated in the euro, uk pound, australian dollar, japanese yen, canadian dollar and chinese renminbi. these contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. as a result, we may experience volatility in our consolidated statements of operations due to (i) the impact of unrealized gains and losses 67 table of contents reported in other income, net on the mark-to-market of outstanding contracts and (ii) realized gains and losses recognized in other income, net, whereas the offsetting economic gains and losses are reported in the line item of the underlying cash flow, for example, revenue. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against those currencies. our expenses, denominated in foreign currencies, are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens against those currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. we believe a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $5.1 million, $5.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively.risk factors 17 risk factors in evaluating our business, the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec should be considered carefully. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. this report contains forward-looking statements; please refer to the cautionary statements made under the heading "special note regarding forward-looking statements" for more information on the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements. the covid-19 global pandemic we may not realize anticipated revenue from our covid-19 diagnostic assays . we have developed assays to detect the novel strain of coronavirus, which causes the infectious disease known as covid-19 ("covid-19"). while we have seen significant demand for our covid-19 assays, other companies are working to 16 table of contents produce or have produced tests for covid-19 which may lead to the diversion of customers, including governmental and quasi-governmental entities, away from us and toward other companies. moreover, the dangers posed by covid-19 may subside over time. we expect that, if and when the current covid-19 pandemic subsides, there may be a significantly reduced demand for ongoing testing, and thus, for our covid-19 assays. there is no guarantee that current or anticipated demand will continue, or if demand does continue, that we will be able to produce in quantities to meet the demand. a significant decline in demand for our covid-19 assays without a corresponding uptick in our other businesses could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. additional resources allocated to our diagnostics business may negatively impact our other development programs or production capacities. given the significant current demand for our covid-19 assays as well as for our panther systems on which the assays run, we have devoted significant financial resources and personnel to scaling up production of the assay and our panther systems. this resource allocation may cause delays in or otherwise negatively impact our other development programs or production capacities. our business could be negatively impacted by our allocation of significant resources to a global health threat that is unpredictable and that could dissipate. the covid-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions have adversely affected and could in the future continue to have a material adverse impact on the demand for many of our products. the covid-19 pandemic has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in the markets we sell our products into and operate in, primarily the u.s, europe and asia-pacific and negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally. as healthcare systems respond to the increasing demands of managing covid-19 and the resulting economic uncertainties, governments around the world have imposed measures designed to reduce the transmission of covid-19 and individuals are responding to the fears of contracting covid-19. in particular, elective procedures and exams were delayed or cancelled, there has been a significant reduction in physician office visits, and hospitals postponed or canceled capital purchases as well as limited or eliminated services. while elective procedures and exams and capital purchases are increasing from initially depressed levels, anticipated unemployment increases will result in more uninsured patients in the u.s. which will likely lead to fewer elective procedures, including screenings. the reduction in elective procedures, exams and capital purchases has had, and we believe will continue to have, a significant negative impact on the sales of most of our products (other than our covid-19 assays and related systems) which has adversely affected our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. additionally, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could further adversely affect sales of our products. we believe that covid-19's adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition will be primarily driven by the severity and duration of the covid-19 pandemic; the covid-19 pandemic's impact on the u.s. and international healthcare systems, the u.s. economy and worldwide economy; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of u.s. and international governmental responses to the covid-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions. the covid-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions could have a material adverse effect on manufacturing, distribution and supply chain. the covid-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions could have an adverse impact on our manufacturing capacity, supply chains and distribution systems, including as a result of impacts associated with preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments are taking. although we have not experienced significant manufacturing or supply chain difficulties as a result of covid-19, we may in the future. a reduction or interruption in any of our manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our business. global challenges continuing worldwide political and social uncertainty, as well as existing tariffs and trade wars and social tensions, may adversely affect our business and prospects, both domestically and internationally. political and social uncertainty and divisions are rife in the u.s. and throughout the world, impairing political, trade and economic relations worldwide. this impacts how we are able to do business and expand our global footprint. changes in policy in the u.s. and other countries regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, could negatively impact our business. in 2018, 2019 and 2020, the u.s. imposed tariffs on goods imported from china and certain other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products, prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. the implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and 17 table of contents financial condition. there is also uncertainty surrounding the impact of u.s. presidential and congressional elections in 2020 on existing and future healthcare legislation; changes in such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our business. our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. international expansion is a key component of our growth strategy. in fiscal 2020, 24.2% of our revenue came from outside of the u.s. as we grow internationally, our future and existing international operations may subject us to a number of additional risks and expenses, any of which could harm our operating results. these risks and expenses include: political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; difficulties in developing staffing and simultaneously managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; governmental currency controls; multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements); protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; the inability to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or favorable third-party reimbursement; operation in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices; the inability to effectively obtain, maintain, protect or enforce intellectual property rights, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, and the inability to otherwise protect against clone or knock off products; the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in china and other foreign countries; and lower margins on a number of our products sold outside of the u.s. business continuity and reliance on third parties supply chain and manufacturing our reliance on one third-party manufacturer for certain of our product lines and a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components and subassemblies for our products exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. we have sole source third-party manufacturers for each of our panther and tigris molecular diagnostics instruments and for our skeletal health products. similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations. we have no firm long-term volume commitments with certain of our sole source suppliers, including the manufacturers of our panther or tigris instruments. similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations, and some of these suppliers are competitors. for example, f. hoffmann-laroche ltd, a direct competitor of our diagnostics business, is the parent company of roche diagnostics corporation, our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified nat diagnostic assays. ge healthcare bio-sciences corp., an affiliate of ge, supplies us with the membranes used in connection with our thinprep product line. ge is a direct competitor with our breast health and skeletal health businesses. if any of our sole source manufacturers or suppliers, or other third-party manufacturers or suppliers, experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with goods in sufficient quantities, including as a result of disruptions caused by the covid-19 pandemic (as described above), then shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. moreover, the failure of a supplier to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely delivery of goods at an acceptable price, or an interruption in the delivery of goods from such a supplier could adversely affect our business and results of operations. obtaining alternative sources of supply of products, components, subassemblies or raw materials could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. we may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers or suppliers to replace existing manufacturers or suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. we may not be able to find contract manufacturers or suppliers that meet our needs, 18 table of contents including regulatory requirements, and even if we do, the process of qualifying such alternative manufacturers and suppliers is often expensive and time consuming. as a result, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. in most cases, the manufacturing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure, disruptions caused by the covid-19 pandemic, or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers or suppliers are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage, which could harm our business and prospects. some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the u.s., including in costa rica and the united kingdom. those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described herein. customer concentration and distributors our diagnostics segment depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce revenues in our diagnostics segment. although we do not currently have any customers that represent more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, a material portion of product sales in our diagnostics segment comes from (and we anticipate will continue to come from) a limited number of customers, two of which accounted for 12.5% and 10.9% of our diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2020. the loss of any of these key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to these customers, could significantly reduce our diagnostics segment revenues or profitability. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. if any of our strategic relationships terminate without replacement or if our strategic partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. we do not control our distributors, and these parties may not be successful in marketing our products. these parties may fail to commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. if we fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. we may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. business development and competition our long-term success will depend upon our ability to execute on business development activities and integrate acquired businesses. as part of our long-term strategy, we are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities to further expand our presence in or diversify into priority growth areas by accessing new products and technologies. we may not be able to identify appropriate business development activities or acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms, if at all. further, once we develop a product or acquire a business, any inability to successfully integrate the new product or business, decreases in customer loyalty or product orders, failure to retain or develop the acquired workforce, failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls or unknown or contingent liabilities could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any new product or acquisition. the integration of new products or an acquired business, whether or not successful, requires significant efforts which may result in additional expenses and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel from other projects. acquisitions, in particular, are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any past or future transaction will be successful. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our 19 table of contents operating results and financial condition. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could be adversely affected, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. if we fail to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses and products, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce the demand and prices for our products. other companies may develop products that are superior to and/or less expensive than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. some companies may have significant competitive advantages over us, which may make them more attractive to hospitals, clinics, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, and physicians, including: greater brand recognition; larger or more established distribution networks and customer bases; a broader product portfolio, resulting in the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; higher levels of automation and greater installed bases of such equipment; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities and greater financial resources; and greater technical resources positioning them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. challenges in the development of our products could materially impact our long-term success. our growth depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for or enhancements of existing products. the development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. the results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory clearances and approvals and reimbursement in the u.s. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain, maintain, protect and enforce appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, gain and maintain market approval of our products and access capital. if we are not able to successfully enhance existing products or develop new products, our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by changing technology or new industry standards. we cannot assure that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance, and we may be unable to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment in such products and technologies. the markets for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products may not develop as expected. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products or technologies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products or technologies; the perception of our products as compared to other products; recommendation and support for the use of our products by influential customers, such as highly regarded hospitals, physicians and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for 20 table of contents our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products our business and prospects could be harmed. if we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed and our revenue could be adversely impacted. we have relied and/or expect to rely on corporate collaborators for funding development, marketing, distribution, and the commercialization of certain products. if any of our corporate collaborators were to breach, terminate, fail to renew our agreements or otherwise fail to properly conduct its obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. further, we would be required to devote additional resources to product development or marketing, to terminate some development programs or to seek alternative corporate collaborations. any corporate collaboration may divert management time and resources. in some instances, we have entered into corporate collaborations with certain partners or companies that could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. any of the foregoing risks could harm our business and prospects. third-party reimbursement and guidelines healthcare cost containment legislation and the failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and the treatments facilitated by these products are dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. these policies affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and technologies. even if we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless appropriate reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the u.s. and other countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products or denies coverage for those procedures facilitated by our products, including price regulation, competitive bidding and tendering, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations may reduce the use of our products. professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. if followed by healthcare providers and insurers, such publications could result in decreased use of our products. for example, in november 2012, the american congress of obstetrics and gynecologists, known as the acog, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in march 2012 by the u.s. preventative services task force, or the uspstf, and the american cancer society. we believe that these recommendations and guidelines may have contributed to increased screening intervals for cervical cancer, which we believe has and may continue to adversely affect our thinprep revenues. our thinprep revenues may also be adversely affected by the july 2020 american cancer society cervical cancer screening recommendation for a primary human papillomavirus (hpv) test rather than a pap test. in addition, on october 20, 2015, the american cancer society issued new guidelines recommending that women start annual mammograms at age 45 instead of 40 and have a mammogram every two years instead of annually. this recommendation could result in a decrease in purchases of our mammography systems. cybersecurity and data privacy increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats, computer viruses and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks, as well as cybersecurity failures resulting from human error and technological errors, pose a risk to the security of hologic and its customers, business partners' and suppliers' products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data on these products, systems and networks. as the perpetrators of such attacks become more capable, and as critical infrastructure is increasingly becoming digitized, the risks in this area continue to grow. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats, and we 21 table of contents cannot assure that the impact from such threats will not be material. in addition to existing risks, the adoption of new technologies may also increase our exposure to cybersecurity breaches and failures. additionally, we have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations or customer-imposed controls. despite our implementation of controls to protect our systems and sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced, lost or corrupted data, employee errors and/or malfeasance (including misappropriation by departing employees) that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. in addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action. although we have experienced occasional actual or attempted breaches of our computer systems, to date we do not believe any of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. failure to comply with laws relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards related to the transmission of electronic health data, may require us to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third-party payors. these standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. outside the u.s., we are impacted by privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. more privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. in the eu, increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules have been enacted. the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) applies uniformly across the eu and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances. the gdpr also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the eu to comply with eu privacy and data protection rules. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. regulatory and legal we operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in healthcare laws and regulations or our inability to obtain in a timely manner or at all u.s. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our current and newly developed products or product enhancements, could adversely affect our business and prospects. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including : new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. given the high level of regulatory oversight to which our products are subject, the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time consuming. in addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn. most medical devices cannot be marketed in the u.s. without 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time 22 table of contents consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. for example, the eu has adopted the eu medical device regulation (the eu mdr ) and the in vitro diagnostic regulation (the eu ivdr ), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the area of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems and post-market surveillance. manufacturers of currently approved medical devices will have until may 2021 to meet the requirements of the eu mdr and until may 2022 to meet the eu ivdr. complying with the requirements of these regulations may require us to incur significant expenditures. failure to meet these requirements could adversely impact our business in the eu and other regions that tie their product registrations to the eu requirements. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize the healthcare industry closely and that changes in laws, regulations or policies by governmental authorities may cause increased uncertainties and compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our business and operations. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new or existing products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. in addition, maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the fda, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the fda and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to the fda's quality system regulation and good manufacturing practices. we or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the anti-kickback statute, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. similarly, the patient protection and affordable care act also includes stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. specifically, under one provision of the law, which is commonly referred to as the physician payment sunshine act, we are required to collect data on and annually report to cms certain payments or other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and annually report certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members. anti-kickback and false claims laws and the physician payment sunshine act prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended ("fcpa"), which prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering or making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. in many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the fcpa. our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the uk anti-bribery act. despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal policies and procedures, we may not always prevent unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market. 23 table of contents we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products for which we may not have adequate insurance. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product's competitive position in the market. the sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in inaccurate test results or the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend. this could result in a diversion of management's attention from our business and adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, which could harm our business and prospects. we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including related to our use and recycling of hazardous materials and the composition of our products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds, and the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in such event, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. from time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. we continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. these regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the eu such as the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances, or reach, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or rohs, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products we manufacture, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, or weee, which requires the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products we manufacture. these and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in japan, china and various states of the u.s. may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. these redesigns or the use of alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead times for product introductions, result in additional costs or have other similar effects. we are also subject to other substantial regulation relating to environmental, health and safety matters, including occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. we may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and future regulations, which may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operation. changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact the company's operating results. we are subject to income taxes, as well as taxes that are not income-based, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by numerous factors including a change in, or the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, a change in our geographic earnings mix, or a change in the measurement of our deferred taxes. intellectual property our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. for example, our patented tma technology is based on technology we licensed from stanford university. we anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. if our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate that technology. similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license. 24 table of contents our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. in addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our nat diagnostic assays may be economically viable. if we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. our products and manufacturing processes may require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain the additional intellectual property rights necessary to commercialize our products. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. the pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that do issue will be challenged or invalidated. the patents that we own or license could also be subjected to invalidation proceedings or similar disputes, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. there is also a risk that intellectual property laws outside of the u.s. will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. even if our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. additionally, rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. we are and have been involved in patent litigation and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the covid-19 assays technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. indebtedness we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, which limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations . as of september 26, 2020, we had approximately $3.0 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness outstanding (exclusive of an additional $1.25 billion that would be available to draw under our revolver and any funds that we may draw under our temporarily suspended accounts receivable securitization program). we also have other contractual obligations and deferred tax liabilities, which as of september 26, 2020, are described under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation contractual obligations. this significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we participate; 25 table of contents place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions or other general corporate purposes. in addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain certain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to: incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends, repurchase our common stock, or make other distributions or restricted payments; make certain investments; agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries; sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with our affiliates; create liens; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. our amended and restated credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our amended and restated credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including our outstanding notes. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these alternative strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. as of september 26, 2020, approximately $1.7 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represented the outstanding principal under our amended and restated credit facilities, was subject to floating interest rates. we currently have limited hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates, including interest rate cap agreements and an interest rate swap agreement. these interest rate cap agreements expire through december 23, 2020, and the interest rate swap contract expires on december 17, 2023. we may not be able to extend these at an attractive economic price. the proposed discontinuation or replacement of libor would require us to amend certain agreements and may otherwise adversely affect our business. 26 table of contents the uk financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. changes in the method of calculating libor, or the replacement of libor with an alternative rate or benchmark, may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs. this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. if changes are made to the method of calculating libor or libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain contracts, including our credit agreement and related interest rate swap agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative rate or benchmark would be negotiated. this may result in an increase to our interest expense. general risk factors our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel and plan for future executive transitions. we continue to assess the key personnel that we believe are essential to our long-term success. following the recent retirement of the president of our breast and skeletal health division, we established the role of group president, breast and skeletal health and surgical and appointed a new president for each of the breast and skeletal health and surgical divisions. all of these roles were filled with internal candidates. as we promote from within, we must fill the roles that are left vacant due to the promotions. if we fail to effectively manage our ongoing organizational and strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed. additionally, facilitating seamless leadership transitions for key positions is a critical factor in sustaining the success of our organization. if our succession planning efforts are not effective, it could adversely impact our business. also, in our industry, there is substantial competition for key personnel in the regions in which we operate. we face intense competition for employees, particularly as employees are increasingly able to work remotely. we also continue to face the challenges of maintaining employee well-being, recognizing that the additional financial, family and health burdens that many employees may be experiencing during the current health and economic uncertainties may adversely impact job performance and employee retention. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly management or key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. provisions in our charter, bylaws, and indebtedness may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the u.s. or worldwide economy; our stock repurchase program; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future; and the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. in addition, the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech and life sciences companies, have historically experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, equity cost-method investments, foreign currency contracts, interest rate cap and interest rate swap agreements, insurance contracts, accounts payable and debt obligations. except for our outstanding 2025 and 2028 senior notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximate their carrying amount. the fair value of our 2025 and 2028 senior notes was approximately $971.5 million and $419.1 million, respectively, as of september 26, 2020. amounts outstanding under our 2018 credit agreement of $1.71 billion aggregate principal as of september 26, 2020 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our 2025 and 2028 senior notes and 2018 credit agreement. the 2025 and 2028 senior notes have fixed interest rates. borrowings under our 2018 credit agreement currently bear interest at the eurocurrency rate (i.e., libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.25% per annum. borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization program currently bear interest at libor plus the applicable margin of 0.7%. as of september 26, 2020, there was $1.71 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the 2018 credit agreement aggregate principal outstanding. since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. a 10% adverse movement (increase in libor rate) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $0.3 million. we entered into multiple interest rate cap agreements and an interest rate swap agreement to help mitigate the interest rate volatility associated with the variable rate interest on the amounts outstanding. the critical terms of the interest rate caps and interest rate swap were designed to mirror the terms of our libor-based borrowings under the 2018 credit agreement, and therefore the interest rate caps and interest rate swap are highly effective at offsetting the cash flows being hedged. we designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability of the libor-based interest payments on $1.0 billion of principal. the interest rate cap contract expires on december 23, 2020, and the interest rate swap contract expires on december 17, 2023. the uk financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. if changes are made to the method of calculating libor or libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain contracts, including our 2018 credit agreement and related interest rate cap and swap agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative rate or benchmark would be negotiated or the extent to which this would adversely affect our interest rate and the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging activity. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 55 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the united states as well as manufacturing facilities in costa rica and the united kingdom. our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the euro, u.s. dollar, uk pound and renminbi. the majority of our foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the local currency, although certain foreign subsidiaries functional currency is the u.s. dollar based on the nature of their operations or functions. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we have executed forward foreign currency contracts and foreign currency option contracts to hedge a portion of results denominated in the euro, uk pound, australian dollar, japanese yen, canadian dollar and chinese renminbi. these contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. as a result, we may experience volatility in our consolidated statements of operations due to (i) the impact of unrealized gains and losses reported in other income, net on the mark-to-market of outstanding contracts and (ii) realized gains and losses recognized in other income, net, whereas the offsetting economic gains and losses are reported in the line item of the underlying cash flow, for example, revenue. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against those currencies. our expenses, denominated in foreign currencies, are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens against those currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. we believe a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $3.4 million, $5.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments. sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments, requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and debt obligations. the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. primary market risk exposures. our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on loans made under a loan and security agreement with foothill capital corporation (the foothill agreement) and a european line of credit. the foothill agreement term loan accrues interest at the prime rate plus 1.25% and the european line of credit accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate plus 1.50%. at september 28, 2002, we had $1.9 million outstanding under the foothill agreement and there were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit. substantially all of our sales outside the united states are conducted in u.s. dollar denominated transactions. we operate two european subsidiaries which incur expenses denominated in local currencies. however, we believe that these operating expenses will not harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments , requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and debt obligations. the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on loans made under a loan and security agreement with wells fargo foothill, inc. (the foothill agreement) and a european line of credit. the foothill agreement term loan accrues interest at the prime rate plus 1.0% and the european line of credit accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate plus 1.50%. at september 27, 2003, we had $0.9 million outstanding under the foothill agreement and there were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit. substantially all of our sales outside the united states are conducted in u.s. dollar denominated transactions. we operate two european subsidiaries which incur expenses denominated in local currencies. however, we believe that these operating expenses will not harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments. sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments, requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and debt obligations. the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on loans made under a loan and security agreement with wells fargo foothill, inc. (the foothill agreement) and a european line of credit. the foothill agreement term loan accrues interest at the prime rate plus 1.0% and the european line of credit accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate plus 1.50%. at september 25, 2004, we had $944,000 outstanding under the foothill agreement and there were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit. foreign currency exchange risk. internationally, we currently operate in belgium and france. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, foreign exchange rate volatility and other risks identified under the heading risk factors in part ii, item 7a above. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. substantially all of our sales outside the united states are conducted in u.s. dollar denominated transactions. we do operate two european subsidiaries, which incur expenses denominated in local currencies (euro). as such, our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in euros are affected by changes in the relative strength of the united states dollar against the euro. our expenses are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, based on the level of operating expenses, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, we incurred foreign currency exchange gains (losses) of $(192,000), $(134,000) and $225,000 respectively.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments , requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and debt obligations. the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on loans made under a loan and security agreement with wells fargo foothill, inc. (the foothill agreement) which was repaid in full and terminated on september 21, 2005, and a european line of credit. the foothill agreement term loan accrued interest at the prime rate plus 1.0% and the european line of credit accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate plus 1.50%. at september 24, 2005, we had no amounts outstanding under the foothill agreement or under the european line of credit. foreign currency exchange risk. internationally, we currently operate in belgium and france. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, foreign exchange rate volatility and other risks identified under the heading risk factors in part ii, item 7a above. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. substantially all of our sales outside the united states are conducted in u.s. dollar denominated transactions. we do operate two european subsidiaries, which incur expenses denominated in local currencies (euro). as such, our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in euros are affected by changes in the relative strength of the united states dollar against the euro. our expenses are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, based on the level of operating expenses, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred foreign currency exchange gains (losses) of $221,000, $(192,000) and $(134,000) respectively.risk factors this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. the cautionary statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. risks relating to acquisitions our business may be harmed by our recently completed acquisitions. we have acquired related businesses, technologies, product lines, and products from suros surgical systems, inc., r2 technology, inc. and aeg elektrofotografie gmbh. the success of these acquisitions will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our own. we may fail to realize these anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in the combined companies not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, which problems may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; and potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to our acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; 17 we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our acquisition of aeg elektrofotografie, which conducts its business worldwide, with headquarters in germany and manufacturing operations in germany and china, is subject to the additional challenges and risks associated with volatility in the market for organic photoconductor coatings used for laser printer cartridges, and the company international operations, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risk and the particular economic, legal, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. the market price of our common stock may decline as a result of our recent acquisitions. the market price of our common stock may decline as a result of our recent acquisitions for a number of reasons, including the following: we have expended significant funds, incurred significant debt and issued a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders; the perceived benefits we anticipate of the acquisitions may not be consistent with those perceived by financial or industry analysts or by investors; the combined companies may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or by investors; the effect of the acquisitions on our financial results may not be consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts or of investors; and our significant stockholders, or stockholders of the acquired entities may decide to dispose of their shares of our common stock. our business may be harmed by acquisitions we complete in the future. our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of our management attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or latent liabilities. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we will be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing business. we may incur significant additional and unforeseen expenses and costs to defend or pursue litigation, investigations or other inquiries in connection with acquisitions that we complete. we may become subject to litigation, investigations or inquiries in connection with acquisitions that we complete, which may cause us to incur significant additional and unforeseen costs to defend or pursue litigation 18 or investigations or other inquiries relating to the acquisition. in connection with our acquisition in september 2005 of the mammography intellectual property assets from fischer, including the rights to their senoscan digital mammography and mammotest stereotactic breast biopsy systems, we became subject to a non-public federal trade commission investigation to determine if the acquisition of certain of those assets may be anticompetitive and in violation of section 7 of the clayton act or section 5 of the ftc act. in july 2006, we entered into a consent agreement with the ftc to resolve our dispute with the ftc regarding our acquisition of the mammotest stereotactic breast biopsy system intellectual property acquired as part of the mammography intellectual property assets purchased from fischer. as part of the consent agreement, we agreed to sell and license back, on a royalty-free nonexclusive basis, all of the intellectual property relating to the mammotest system to siemens ag. the consent agreement and agreement with siemens received final approval from the ftc on august 9, 2006. risks relating to our business the markets for our direct-to-digital full-field mammography products are relatively new and may not develop as expected. we cannot assure that the markets for our direct-to-digital full-field mammography products will continue to develop. there is a significant installed base of conventional screen-film mammography products in hospitals and radiological practices. the use of our direct-to-digital mammography products in many cases would require these potential customers to either modify or replace their existing x-ray imaging equipment. moreover, as direct-to-digital mammography products are generally more expensive than conventional screen-firm mammography products, we believe that a major factor in the market acceptance of direct-to-digital mammography products has been and will continue to be based upon the benefits direct-to-digital technology as compared to less expensive technologies. as a result, the market for our direct-to-digital mammography products has and will continue to be affected by published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of digital mammography products, and the publication of an adverse study could significantly impair the adoption of this technology and harm our business. the implementation of digital mammography technology is also affected by the trend toward transition by the healthcare industry from conventional film archiving systems to hospital picture archiving and communications systems, known as pacs, to store x-ray images electronically. because the benefits of our direct-to-digital mammography technology may not be fully realized by customers until they install a pacs platform, a large potential market for these products may not develop until pacs environments are more widely used. because the markets for these products are relatively new, it is likely that our evaluation of the potential markets for these products will materially vary with time. we depend on third party reimbursement to our customers for market acceptance of our products. failure of third party payors to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for use of our products could harm our business and prospects. sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. the costs of our products are substantial, and market acceptance of our products depends upon our customers ability to obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for use of our products. in the united states, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, known as cms, establishes guidelines for the reimbursement of healthcare providers treating medicare and medicaid patients. under current cms guidelines, varying reimbursement levels have been established for mammography, breast biopsy, cad and bone density assessment and other imaging and diagnostic procedures performed by our products. the actual reimbursement amounts are determined by individual state medicare carriers and, for non-medicare and medicaid patients, private insurance carriers. there are often delays between the reimbursement approvals by cms and by a state medicare carrier and private insurance carriers. moreover, states as well as private insurance carriers may choose not to follow the cms reimbursement guidelines. the use of our products outside the united states is similarly affected by reimbursement policies adopted by foreign regulatory and insurance carriers. in november 2006, the cms 19 announced reductions to the 2007 reimbursement levels for bone density assessments, cad, breast biopsy and digital and analog mammography screening and diagnostics. the most significant reductions were an approximately 40% decline in 2007 in reimbursement for osteoporosis (dxa) testing, which increases to an approximately 70% decline over 4 years, an approximately 30% decline in 2007 in reimbursement for stereotactic biopsy, which increases to an approximately 63% decline over 4 years, an approximately 16% decline in reimbursement for cad in 2007, which increases to an approximately 50% decline over four years, and an approximately 10% decline in 2007 in reimbursement for vacuum assisted (suros) biopsy, which increases to an approximately 15% decline over 4 years. these reductions or any other reduction or other adverse change in reimbursement policies for the use of our products could harm our business and prospects. if we fail to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our direct radiography products require, we will not be successful in developing and marketing those products. the manufacture of our direct radiography detectors is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing these detectors in commercial quantities, primarily related to delays and difficulties in obtaining critical components for these detectors that meet our high manufacturing standards. our initial difficulties have led to increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we manufacture our products at our manufacturing facilities in danbury, connecticut, bedford, massachusetts, newark, delaware, and, with our recent acquisition of aeg, we manufacture the selenium coatings used in the digital x-ray image capture radiographic systems in germany. we also manufacture selenium and organic photoconductor coatings for other uses in germany and china. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. we may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, our aeg manufacturing operations in germany and china are subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations. the uncertainty of healthcare reform could harm our business and prospects. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including efforts at national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products; reduce reimbursement available for such use; or adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted. these reforms or cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could harm our business and prospects and make it difficult for us to raise additional capital on advantageous terms, if at all. 20 our success depends on new product development. we have a continuing research and development program designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve our products. we are expending significant resources on the development of digital x-ray imaging products, including the development of a digital mammography product to perform breast tomosynthesis, a 3-dimensional imaging technique. the successful development of these products and product enhancements are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays; access to capital; budget overruns; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for our products or 510(k) notification. given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, we cannot assure that any of our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget could harm our business and prospects. our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite our internal testing and testing by our customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or any of our products fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. any new products or product enhancements developed by us may not be commercially successful. even if we are successful in developing a new product or a product enhancement, we cannot assure that such product or product enhancement will be commercially successful. the successful commercialization of new products and product enhancements are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or enhancement; product performance, perceived or actual; competition; and other technological developments, as well as the other risks relating to our business as set forth herein. often, the development of a significant market for a new product or product enhancement will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not addressed until after a new product or product enhancement is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a new product or product enhancement. 21 our reliance on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. in particular, we have a limited number of suppliers for the panel for our direct radiography products and aeg is our sole source provider for selenium coatings. in addition, we have only limited sources of supply for some key components used in our mini c-arm systems and our suros biopsy systems. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. our liquidity and financial position could be harmed by our obligations under our credit facility and our long-term leases for our headquarters and lorad facilities. our obligations under our credit facility and our long-term leases for our headquarters and lorad facilities could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. these obligations could also adversely affect our liquidity and, in the event of a cash shortfall, we could be forced to reduce other expenditures to be able to meet such requirements. moreover, our credit facility and long-term leases contain financial and other covenants. if we do not comply with our covenants our obligations could be accelerated and our liquidity and financial position could be harmed. our ability to meet our obligations under our credit facility and leases will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and make our lease payments, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of such obligations, or obtain additional financing and our liquidity and financial position could be harmed. we may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. many of these competitors offer a range of products in areas other than those in which we compete, which may make such competitors more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, general purchasing organizations and other potential customers. in addition, many of our current and potential competitors such as agfa, fuji, ge, kodak, johnson and johnson, siemens and toshiba, are larger and have greater financial resources than us and offer a range of products broader than our products. some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future have or may have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical and personnel resources than us, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. our failure to compete successfully could harm our business and prospects. recent proposed changes to reclassify full field digital mammography to permit 510(k) clearance could increase competition for our digital mammography products. on may 23, 2006 the us fda radiological devices panel recommended the reclassification of full field digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii devices. the fda has not taken any additional steps act on the panel recommendation. if the fda implements the panel recommendation, the reclassification would allow full field digital mammography systems to be cleared for commercialization through the 510(k) process, which is less rigorous than the present pre-market approval process. if and when implemented, the reclassification for full field digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii devices may lower barriers of entry into the digital mammography market, may result in more competitors entering the united states market and could harm sales of our digital mammography systems. 22 our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the market for our products has been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. we believe that these trends will continue into the foreseeable future. our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasing customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business and prospects. we have entered into strategic alliances with siemens and esaote. we are also exploring other potential alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships. siemens and esaote compete with us in some of our business segments, and are competitors or potential competitors to some of our customers or potential customers. our alliance with siemens, esaote or any other person could enhance their business to our detriment or make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for alliances or joint ventures; assure that any alliance or joint venture candidate will provide us with the support anticipated; successfully negotiate an alliance or joint venture on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. furthermore, any alliance or joint venture may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous alliance or joint venture or failing to manage an alliance or joint venture effectively could harm our business and prospects. the future growth of our bone densitometry business depends in large part on the continued development and more widespread acceptance of complementary therapies as well as our ability to expand into the primary care market. our bone densitometers and related products are used to assist physicians in diagnosing patients at risk for osteoporosis and other bone disorders, and to monitor the effectiveness of therapies to treat these disorders. as a result, the future growth of the market for these products and of this business will in large part be dependent upon the development and more widespread acceptance of drug therapies to prevent and to treat osteoporosis, and in addition, our ability to expand into the primary care market. over the last several years, the fda has approved a number of drug therapies to treat osteoporosis. we also understand that a number of other drug therapies are under development. while sales of our bone densitometry products have benefited from the increased availability and use of these therapies, most patients who are at risk for osteoporosis continue to go untreated. we cannot assure that any therapies under development or in clinical trials will prove to be effective, obtain regulatory approval, or that any approved therapy will gain widespread acceptance, or that we will be able to expand into the primary care market. even if these therapies gain widespread acceptance, we cannot assure that this acceptance will increase the sales of our products. reductions in revenues could harm our operating results because a high percentage of our operating expenses is relatively fixed. a high percentage of our operating expenses is relatively fixed. we likely will not be able to reduce spending to compensate for adverse fluctuations in revenues. as a result, shortfalls in revenues are likely to harm our operating results. 23 our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation and seasonal fluctuation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. the results for a particular quarter may vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts reimbursement levels for the use of our products; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat breast cancer and osteoporosis; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; and pricing and other competitive conditions. customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our products could harm our business and prospects. our products are medical devices that are the subject of a high level of regulatory oversight. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our products could harm our business and prospects. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without clearance or approval by the fda. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, have harmed and could continue to harm our business and prospects. foreign sales accounted for approximately 28% of our product sales in fiscal 2006, 33% of our product sales in fiscal 2005, and 39% of our product sales in fiscal 2004. we maintain a sales and service office in belgium and a support office in france, and our aeg elektrofotografie subsidiary conducts its business worldwide, with headquarters in germany and manufacturing operations in germany and china. the expenses of these offices are denominated in local currencies, and our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollars. we anticipate that foreign sales and sales denominated in foreign currencies will continue to account for a significant portion of our total sales. fluctuations in the value of local currencies have caused, and are likely to continue to cause, amounts translated into u.s. dollars to fluctuate in comparison with previous periods. we have hedged our foreign currency exposure by borrowing funds in local european currencies to pay the expenses of our foreign offices. in addition, our recently acquired aeg operation has engaged in hedging activities, such as currency swaps, to hedge its foreign currency exposure. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure. 24 we conduct our business worldwide, which exposes us to a number of difficulties in coordinating our international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments. we sell our products to customers throughout the world. our worldwide business may be harmed by: difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations; greater difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; possible adverse tax consequences; governmental currency controls; changes in various regulatory requirements; political and economic changes and disruptions; export/import controls; and tariff regulations. additionally, as a result of our acquisition of aeg elektrofotografie, which also conducts its business worldwide, with headquarters in germany and manufacturing operations in germany, china and the united states, we may experience increased difficulties in coordinating international activities and successfully integrating and operating aeg elektrofotografie business. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. in addition, we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed which relate to our technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states intellectual property laws. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and related industries. we are and have been engaged, and may be in the future, notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. in connection with such litigation or if any claims are asserted against our intellectual property rights, we may seek to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. our future success will depend on the continued services of our key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly our key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects. our success will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified 25 managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel, is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. we do not have any key man life insurance for any of our officers or other key personnel. we are exposed to potential risks and we will continue to incur increased costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of september 30, 2006 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute a material weakness. as a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. although we have completed the documentation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2006, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we expect to continue to incur costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with that section of the sarbanes-oxley act. we continue to monitor controls for any weaknesses or deficiencies. no evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. the effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. in addition, as we continue to expand globally, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls will increase and will require that we continue to improve our internal controls. in the future, if we fail to complete the sarbanes-oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. in addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. our assessment of internal controls in fiscal 2006 did not include our recently acquired entities of aeg, r2 and suros. our assessment of internal controls in fiscal 2007 will include these entities. we expect that these and future acquisitions of companies, some of which have operations outside the united states, will provide us with additional challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in our acquired operations. our recently acquired companies do not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those required by securities law applicable to public companies in the united states. although we intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in complying with section 404. there is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from product liability or other claims, or that in the future liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect the company from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our operating results or financial condition. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability 26 could be extensive. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. risks relating to our common stock provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the provisions of delaware corporate law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; and developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or registration. affiliates must sell all shares they own in compliance with the volume and other requirements of rule 144, except for the holding period requirements. sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our stockholders, or even the potential for such sales, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments , requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, and debt obligations. the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement with bank of america and on the debt assumed as a result of our acquisition of aeg. at our option, revolving loans outstanding under the credit agreement will bear interest at a rate equal to (a) eurodollar rate the british bankers association london inter-bank offered rate for dollar deposits (known as libor ) plus the applicable margin (as defined in the credit agreement, which margin ranges from 0.625% to 1.00% depending on our consolidated leverage ratio) or (b) base rate the higher of (i) the bank of america prime rate and (ii) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%. the terms of the aeg debt agreements have various maturities ranging from july 1, 2007 through march 15, 2011. interest rates are variable and at september 30, 2006 ranged from 5% to 6.5%. we may also incur interest expense on loans made under a european line of credit that accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate plus 1.50% to 2.25%, as defined. at september 30, 2006, there were no amounts outstanding under the european line of credit. 58 we have interest rate swap contracts in place totaling 6 million euros and $7.6 million u.s. dollars where we pay at a fixed rate and receive at a floating rate. fixed rates range from 2.85% to 3.75% and the floating rates range from 2.1% to 3.41%. maturity dates coincide with those of the outstanding hedge debt agreements, thus having various maturities ranging from november 2007 through december 2010. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectation due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that experience a decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. interest income on our investment is recorded as a component of other income in our accompanying consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange risk. internationally, we currently operate in belgium, france, germany, china and canada. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. substantially all of our sales outside the united states are conducted in u.s. dollar denominated transactions. we operate international subsidiaries that incur expenses denominated in local currencies. however, we believe that these operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. expenses to service our contracts are incurred both by our international subsidiaries in the local currency and by the parent company in u.s. dollars. as such, our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, based on the level of operating expenses, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, we incurred foreign currency exchange gains (losses) of $30,000, $221,000, and $(192,000), respectively. we occasionally use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate our foreign currency exchange rate exposures related to our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, and more specifically, to hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of our german sales denominated in the u.s. dollar. the terms of these forward contracts are of a short-term nature (6-12 months). at september 30, 2006, we had $8.15 million outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to exchange u.s. dollars for euros. the forward foreign exchange contracts have various maturity dates within the first two quarters of fiscal 2007 and had a book value that approximated fair value. the market risk associated with the forward foreign exchange contracts resulting from currency exchange rate or interest rate movements is expected to mitigate the market risk of the underlying assets being hedged. a hypothetical 10% movement in the foreign currency exchange rate between u.s. dollars and euros would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we do not use forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.risk factors this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. the cautionary statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. risks related to our indebtedness we incurred significant indebtedness in order to finance the merger with cytyc corporation, which limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. in order to finance the cash portion of the merger with cytyc corporation ( cytyc ) and other expenses incurred in connection with the merger, we incurred over $2.35 billion of new indebtedness, including approximately $600 million under a senior secured tranche a term loan facility which matures on september 30, 2012, $500 million under a senior secured tranche b-1 and b-2 term loan facility which matures on march 31, 2013, and $1.25 billion under senior secured capital markets term loan facility which matures on april 22, 2009. additionally, certain other of our indebtedness may remain outstanding. these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. this level of indebtedness may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. in addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends and make distributions; repurchase stock; make certain investments; create liens; engage in transactions with affiliates; merge with or acquire another company; and transfer and sell assets. our new credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. 22 table of contents our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the new credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our obligations, including our obligations under our credit facilities. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this is the case, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. we may be required to enter into hedging transactions for our variable interest rate exposure under our existing credit facilities which could adversely affect our ability to repay all or a portion of those facilities without incurring additional costs, and will subject us to risks of default by the counterparties to those transactions. the terms of our credit facility obligate us to enter into hedging transactions to hedge a substantial portion of the interest rate risk under those facilities, if we do not otherwise refinance a substantial portion of those facilities with debt bearing a fixed rate of interest. if we repay, redeem or repurchase (voluntarily or mandatorily) all or a portion of our credit facilities prior to their scheduled maturities, our obligations under those hedging transactions, if any, may cease to match our obligations under the credit facilities, and could result in significant additional expense to the company. these hedging transactions may not qualify for effective hedge treatment in accordance with u.s. gaap and as a result, any changes in fair value of hedge contracts could be required to be recorded to the statement of income. in addition, default by the counterparties to our hedging transactions could result in us having to make interest payments at the variable rates payable under the credit facilities and expose us further to interest rate fluctuation risk under those credit facilities. 23 table of contents risks related to our business sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent on third party reimbursement. failure of third party payors to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for use of our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our medical products in the united states and other countries is dependent on the reimbursement of patient medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. the costs of our products to customers are substantial, and market acceptance of our products will continue to depend upon our customers ability to obtain an appropriate level of reimbursement from third-party payors for use of such products. in the united states, the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, known as cms, establish guidelines for the reimbursement of healthcare providers treating medicare and medicaid patients. under current cms guidelines, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our products and procedures. the actual reimbursement amounts are determined by individual state medicare carriers and, for non-medicare and medicaid patients, private insurance carriers. there are often delays between the reimbursement approvals by cms and by a state medicare carrier and private insurance carriers. moreover, states as well as private insurance carriers may choose not to follow the cms reimbursement guidelines. the use of our products outside the united states is similarly affected by reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments reimbursements and regulatory positions and insurance carriers. in november 2007, the cms announced reductions to the 2008 reimbursement levels for physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. such reimbursement rates also reflect a sustainable growth rate ( sgr ) reduction which requires that reimbursement rates factor in a 10.1% reduction in physician payments under the physician fee schedule as determined by the sgr formula. the most significant reductions for 2008 applicable to our products were an approximately 4% to 9% decline in digital and analog mammography screening and diagnostic reimbursement rates, primarily due to the 10.1% sgr reduction and an approximately 22% decline, in addition to the sgr reduction, in reimbursement for cad in 2008, the second year of the increases to an approximately 50% decline over four years as announced in 2006. medicare payments in 2008 for our other products are effected primarily by the sgr reduction, and will decline by less than approximately 12%,while in-office payments for novasure and mammosite balloon catheter placement will decline by approximately 17%. in november 2006, cms announced reductions to the 2007 reimbursement levels for bone density assessments including an approximately 40% decline in 2007 in reimbursement for osteoporosis (dxa) testing, which increases to an approximately 70% decline over four years. the increase in the decline for 2008 for reimbursement for dxa testing is approximately 2%. these reductions or any other reduction or adverse change in reimbursement policies for the use of our products could harm our business and prospects. our business may be harmed by our recently completed acquisitions and our merger with cytyc. we recently acquired a number of businesses, technologies, product lines, and products, including cytyc, biolucent, suros, r2, aeg, adeza and adiana. the success of these acquisitions will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our business. we may fail to realize these anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; 24 table of contents failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; potential difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the sec; and potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition of such companies, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; an acquisition may result in future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we paid for them; an acquisition may involve restructuring operations or reductions in workforce which may result in substantial charges to our operations; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax decisions and/or changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our acquisition of aeg, which conducts its business worldwide, with headquarters in germany and manufacturing operations in germany and china, is also subject to the additional challenges and risks associated with volatility in the market for organic photoconductor coatings used for laser printer cartridges, and our international operations, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risk and the particular economic, legal, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses could harm our business and prospects and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the current levels of growth in the markets for our direct-to-digital full-field mammography products and endometrial ablation procedures, such as our novasure system, may not continue to develop as expected or be indicative of future growth. demand for newly introduced technologies or treatments can initially be exaggerated as supply increases to meet pre-existing demand. however, once the pre-existing demand is met, growth in the market may abruptly stop or significantly slow. the markets for our direct-to-digital full-field mammography products and endometrial ablation procedures, such as our novasure system, may not continue to develop as current levels of growth and demand may indicate and we cannot predict when, or at what rate, this demand may stop or decline in growth. 25 table of contents there is a significant installed base of conventional screen-film mammography products in hospitals and radiological practices. the use of our direct-to-digital mammography products in many cases would require these potential customers to replace their existing x-ray imaging equipment. moreover, as digital mammography products are generally more expensive than conventional screen-film mammography products, we believe that a major factor in the market acceptance of digital mammography products has been and will continue to be based upon the benefits of digital technology as compared to less expensive technologies. as a result, the market for our digital mammography products has and will continue to be affected by published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of digital mammography products. the publication of an adverse study could significantly impair the adoption of this technology and harm our business. similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to attract physicians and women to use the novasure system, or whether or not evolving trends in the treatment of excessive menstrual bleeding will favor new endometrial ablation procedures as compared to traditional approaches. if the demand for our direct-to-digital mammography products and treatments like the novasure system were to stop abruptly or begin to decline, our operating results and profitability could be adversely affected. the success of our thinprep system depends upon the cost and continued market acceptance of our thinprep system products. the success of our thinprep system depends on the continued market acceptance of our thinprep system and thinprep imaging system, including any follow-on applications of thinprep technology. the laboratory cost of using the thinprep system and thinprep imaging system for cervical cancer screening, both together and individually, is higher than that of a conventional pap smear and, we believe, competing liquid-based slide preparation systems. due in part to increased competitive pressures in the cytology screening market and healthcare industry to reduce costs, our ability to continue to gain market acceptance of the thinprep system and follow-on products will depend on our ability to demonstrate that the higher cost of using the thinprep system is offset by (i) a reduction in costs often associated with conventional pap smears or competing liquid-based slide preparation systems, such as inaccurate diagnoses and the need for repeat pap smears, as well as (ii) the ability to conduct additional testing, such as testing for the hpv, chlamydia trachomatis and neisseria gonorrhea on samples collected in a thinprep vial of preservative. in particular, for the thinprep imaging system, we will need to work with healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors, and clinical laboratories to reinforce the known clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the thinprep imaging system. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest united states laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of thinprep system sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. our business and prospects may be harmed if we are unable to increase sales to, or maintain pricing levels with our existing customers and establish new customers both within and outside the united states. our success will depend on new product development. we have continuing research and development programs designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve our products. we are expending significant resources on the development of digital x-ray imaging products, including the development of a digital mammography product to perform breast tomosynthesis, a 3-dimensional imaging technique as well as on continued product line enhancements. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays; 26 table of contents access to capital; budget overruns; third party intellectual property; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for products or 510(k) notification. given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, there can be no assurance that any of our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements, such as our digital mammography tomosynthesis product, on a timely basis or within budget could harm our business and prospects and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the markets for and future growth of our products and treatments may not develop as expected. there can be no assurance that our existing products or treatments, or the enhancement of products or treatments will be commercially successful. the successful commercialization of our products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies; perceptions of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments; recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not addressed until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our products and treatments, such as our digital mammography tomosynthesis product, due to, among other things, the lack of reimbursement codes or disadvantageous reimbursement levels for such products or treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. we may not be successful in growing our international sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we cannot guarantee that we will successfully continue to develop international sales channels or capabilities that will enable us to generate significant revenue from international sales. we may not be able to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements and required regulatory approvals in foreign countries. failure to continue to increase international sales could harm our business and prospects. 27 table of contents our success depends on our ability to manage growth effectively. our operations and facilities, including the number of employees and the geographic area of operations, have grown rapidly, and our operations and facilities are expected to continue to grow. our failure to manage growth effectively could harm our business and prospects. such growth may significantly strain our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. to manage such growth effectively, it is expected that we will continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls, and to effectively retain, expand, train and manage our employee base. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and related industries. we have been involved in infringement litigation, and may in the future be notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. for example, in october 2007, ethicon endo-surgery, inc., a johnson &amp; johnson operating company ( ethicon ), filed a complaint against us and our wholly-owned subsidiary suros. the complaint alleges that certain of the atec biopsy systems manufactured and sold by suros infringe four ethicon patents. the complaint seeks to enjoin us and suros from infringing the patents as well as the recovery of damages and costs resulting from the alleged infringement. in connection with litigation or if any claims are asserted against our intellectual property rights, we may seek to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. if we fail to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our direct radiography products require, we may not be successful in developing and marketing those products. the manufacture of our direct radiography detectors is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing these detectors in sufficient quantities, primarily related to delays and difficulties in obtaining critical components for these detectors that meet our high manufacturing standards. our initial difficulties led to increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. the uncertainty of healthcare reform could harm our business and prospects. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including efforts at national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products; reduce reimbursement available for such use; or adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted. these reforms or cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could harm our business and prospects. 28 table of contents our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. in addition, we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united states are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties which relate to our technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states intellectual property laws. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. our international operations expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. we are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations. any of these risks or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. these risks and expenses include: difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; greater difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; governmental currency controls; multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements, international trade regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act); reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; political and economic changes and disruptions; export/import controls; and tariff regulations. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we manufacture most of our mammography, breastcare and osteoporosis assessment products as well as our mini c-arm products and mri systems at our manufacturing facilities in danbury, connecticut, bedford, massachusetts, indianapolis, indiana and newark, delaware. in addition, we manufacture the selenium coatings used in the digital x-ray image capture radiographic systems in germany and our selenium and organic photoconductor coatings for other uses in germany and china. we assemble and manufacture our thinprep products at our facilities in marlborough, massachusetts and londonderry, new hampshire. in addition, we 29 table of contents manufacture our novasure system and mammosite system in costa rica. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. because some of our manufacturing operations are located in germany, china and costa rica, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below. our business could be harmed if products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recall or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. this reliance could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. in particular, we have a limited number of suppliers for certain components of our digital detector. in addition, we have only limited sources of supply for some key components used in our mini c-arm systems and our suros biopsy systems. we currently obtain certain key components of our products, including the proprietary filter material and microscope slides used in the thinprep pap test, radioisotopes, certain balloons and other items used in the design and manufacture of the mammosite system and the iotrex liquid isotope used with the gliasite system, from single or a limited number of sources due to technology, availability, price, quality and other considerations. additionally, the novasure system utilizes several components that may become obsolete or no longer be manufactured. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. some of our competitors are large companies that may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: significantly greater name recognition; established distribution networks; additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain competitive advantage; 30 table of contents more extensive research, development, sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities; and better positioning to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. other companies may develop products that are superior to or less expensive, or both, than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introductions of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed. our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. these trends will likely continue into the foreseeable future. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasing customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. our results of operations is subject to significant quarterly variation and seasonal fluctuation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat breast cancer and osteoporosis; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; and complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap). customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our products could harm our business and prospects. our products are medical devices that are the subject of a high level of regulatory oversight. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, 31 table of contents such as our digital mammography tomosynthesis product and our permanent female contraception product, could harm our business and prospects and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without clearance or approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect its safety or effectiveness require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civic sanctions, including but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. recent proposed changes to reclassify full-field digital mammography to permit 510(k) clearance could increase competition for our digital mammography products. on may 23, 2006 the fda radiological devices panel recommended the reclassification of full-field digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii devices. the fda has indicated that they intend to issue guidance on full field digital mammography during 2008. if the fda implements the panel recommendation, the reclassification would allow full-field digital mammography systems to be cleared for commercialization through the 510(k) process, which is less rigorous than the present pre-market approval process. if and when implemented, the reclassification for full-field digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii devices may lower barriers of entry into the digital mammography market, may result in more competitors entering the united states market and could harm sales of our digital mammography systems. our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving fda clearance or approval, which could harm our business and prospects. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could harm the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the medicare/medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other 32 table of contents third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. while we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product competitive position in the market. the sale and use of one of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica and china, and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of business is conducted in u.s. dollars, and our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollars. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we have historically hedged, and may in the future hedge, our foreign currency exposure by borrowing funds in local european currencies to pay the expenses of our foreign offices. in addition, our aeg operation has engaged in hedging activities, such as currency swaps, to hedge our foreign currency exposure. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure. 33 table of contents our future success depends on the continued services of key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel, is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. our business may be harmed by acquisitions we complete in the future. our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of our management attention and risks and costs associated with unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as litigation, investigations or inquiries in connection with acquisitions that we complete. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we will be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing business. our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business and prospects. we have entered into alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships. alliances with certain partners or companies could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for alliances or joint ventures; assure that any alliance or joint venture candidate will provide us with the support anticipated; successfully negotiate an alliance or joint venture on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. furthermore, any alliance or joint venture may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous alliance or joint venture, failing to manage an alliance or joint venture effectively, or failing to comply with obligations in connection therewith, could harm our business and prospects. we are exposed to potential risks and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of september 29, 2007 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute a material weakness. as a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. we expect to continue to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we continue to monitor controls for any weaknesses or deficiencies. no evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the company to disclose material information 34 table of contents otherwise required to be reported. the effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. in addition, as we continue to expand globally, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls will increase and will require that we continue to improve our internal controls over financial reporting. in 2007, cytyc acquired adeza and adiana and we completed the merger with cytyc. we expect to include cytyc, adeza and adiana in our assessment of internal control over financial reporting in fiscal 2008. we expect to face additional challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls as a result of the merger and other acquired operations. although we intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in complying with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. for example, in connection with cytyc filing of their original annual report on form 10-k in march 2007, its management included management report on internal control over financial reporting therein, which expressed a conclusion by management that they believed that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of december 31, 2006. as a result of the restatement of cytyc consolidated financial statements, its management determined that a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting existed as of december 31, 2006, and, subsequently concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of december 31, 2006. a material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. the following material weakness in cytyc internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2006 was identified and included in its assessment: cytyc did not implement controls necessary to provide reasonable assurance that the accounting for certain stock option exercise activity that occurred during the period from 1996 through 2002 was properly recorded in its financial statements included in its 2006 annual report on form 10-k, as originally filed, in accordance with accounting principles board opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees . to remedy the material weakness identified in the annual report on form 10-k/a, cytyc enhanced its policies surrounding consultations on complex technical accounting matters to include third-party subject matter experts. in the future, if we fail to complete the sarbanes-oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls which could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting which may result in a loss of public confidence in our internal controls and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. in addition, any failure to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. risks related to our common stock provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. 35 table of contents our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; and developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments , requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short and long-term investments, accounts receivable, and debt obligations. the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. in fiscal 2007, we incurred interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement with bank of america and on the debt assumed as a result of our acquisition of aeg. at september 29, 2007, there were no amounts outstanding under the bank of america credit agreement, and in connection with the credit agreement we entered into on october 22, 2007, the bank of america credit agreement was terminated. as of the closing of the cytyc merger, we borrowed $2.35 billion under our october 22, 2007 credit agreement all of which carries variable interest rates. borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at a 73 table of contents rate per annum equal to, at our option, either (1) the base rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in the wall street journal and the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%) or (2) the eurodollar rate, plus an applicable margin determined by reference to the leverage ratio, as set forth in the credit agreement. as of october 22, 2007 all amounts outstanding accrued interest at the eurodollar rate with applicable margins ranging from 1.75% to 2.50%. each 25 basis point change in interest rates would result in approximately $5.9 million change in annual interest expense based on amounts currently outstanding. the terms of the credit agreement obligate us to enter into hedging transactions by april 2008 to hedge the interest rate risk of at least 50% of the indebtedness under the credit agreement if we do not otherwise refinance such portion of the indebtedness with debt financing bearing a fixed rate of interest. the terms of the aeg debt agreements have various maturities ranging from december 30, 2010 through september 15, 2012. interest rates are variable and at september 29, 2007 ranged from 5.7% to 7.3%. we may also incur interest expense on loans made under a european line of credit that accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate plus 1.50% to 2.25%, as defined. at september 29, 2007, there were no amounts outstanding under the european line of credit. we terminated interest rate swap contracts, totalling 6 million euros and $8.5 million u.s. dollars, where we paid a fixed rate and received at a floating rate, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. the termination resulted in a gain of $75,000. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectation due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that experience a decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in investment interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. interest income on our investments is recorded as a component of other income in our accompanying consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica and china, and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales are denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollars. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. during fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, we incurred foreign currency exchange gains (losses) of $(440,390), $30,000, and $221,000, respectively. we occasionally use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate our foreign currency exchange rate exposures related to our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, and more specifically, to hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of our german sales denominated in the u.s. dollar. the 74 table of contents terms of these forward contracts are generally of a short-term nature (6-12 months). at september 29, 2007, we had no outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments , requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and debt obligations. except for our outstanding convertible note, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. as of september 27, 2008 we have $1.725 billion of convertible notes outstanding. the fair value of our convertible notes was approximately $1.3 billion as of september 27, 2008 based on the trading price as of that date. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our amended credit agreement and on the debt assumed as a result of our acquisition of aeg. borrowings under the amended credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, with respect to the 79 table of contents borrowings under the term loan a of either (1) the base rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in the wall street journal and the federal funds effective rate) plus 1.5% or (2) the eurodollar rate, plus 2.5% and with respect to the term loan b of either (1) the base rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in the wall street journal and the federal funds effective rate) plus 2.25% or (2) the eurodollar rate, plus 3.25%. on july 17, 2008, the date we entered into the amended credit agreement, we borrowed $400 million under the term loan a and $140 million under the term loan b. as of september 27, 2008, there was approximately $465 million outstanding under the amended credit agreement, including $344.4 million under the term loan a facility which matures on september 30, 2012 and $120.6 million under the term loan b facility which matures on march 31, 2013. the terms of the aeg debt agreements have various maturities ranging from december 30, 2010 through march 30, 2014. interest rates are variable and had weighted average interest rates ranging from 5.5% to 7.2% during the twelve months ended september 27, 2008. we may also incur interest expense on loans made under a european line of credit that accrues interest at the europe interbank offered rate 7.5%, as defined. at september 27, 2008, there were no amounts outstanding under the european line of credit. these debt obligations are variable rate instruments and our interest expense associated with these instruments is, therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. a 10% adverse movement (increase in libor) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $2.4 million. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. interest income on our cash and cash equivalents is recorded as a component of other income in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica and china, and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales are denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollars. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred foreign exchange (losses) gains of approximately ($658,000), ($440,000) and $30,000, respectively.risk factors this report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. such statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. risks related to our business the worldwide macroeconomic downturn may adversely affect our business and prospects. market acceptance of our medical products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patient medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. since the end of calendar 2008, the uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and deteriorating worldwide macroeconomic conditions have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. additionally, constrictions in world credit markets have caused and may continue to cause our customers to experience increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. economic uncertainty has and may result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. furthermore, governments and other third party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. if the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be adversely affected. 18 table of contents sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent upon the coverage and reimbursement decisions made by third party payors. the failure of third party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our medical products and the treatments facilitated by our products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. the costs of our products and treatments to customers are substantial, and market acceptance of our products and treatments will continue to depend upon our customers ability to obtain an appropriate level of coverage for, and reimbursement from third-party payors for, these products and treatments. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, known as cms, establish coverage and reimbursement policies for healthcare providers treating medicare and medicaid beneficiaries. under current cms policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our products and treatments. coverage policies for medicare patients may vary by regional medicare carriers in the absence of a national coverage decision and reimbursement rates for treatments may vary based on the geographic price index. coverage and reimbursement policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by cms. the use of our products and treatments outside the united states is similarly affected by coverage and reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments and private insurance carriers. in october 2009, cms announced 2010 reimbursement rates for physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. cms also implemented provisions of the deficit reduction act of 2005 related to certain medical imaging procedures. for 2010, the downward adjustments that affect our products include an approximate 11% decline in reimbursement for cad, and an approximate 14% reduction in bone density assessments for osteoporosis rates. the cms reductions that would affect the reimbursement for the use of our products also include a general reduction of 21% in the sustainable growth rate ( sgr ) factor. this factor is used by cms in a formula to determine doctor reimbursements. congress has, from time to time, overridden some or all of the proposed reductions in reimbursement, and there is pending legislation to freeze the sgr for 2010 which would eliminate this potential decrease. however, we cannot assure that congress will override any part of the recent proposed reductions. significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products has had and may continue to have a material adverse affect on the sales of those products. these reductions in cms reimbursement rates, any further reductions in reimbursement rates established by cms or other third party payors, and any decision to cease providing coverage for any of our products or treatments by cms or other third party payors could adversely affect our business and prospects. the uncertainty of healthcare reform could harm our business and prospects. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including efforts at national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. we anticipate that the current administration, congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. at this time, we cannot predict which, if any, healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on our business. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products and treatments; reduce reimbursement available for such use; or adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted. 19 table of contents these reforms or cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business and prospects. changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and changes in the tax laws relating to our operations, such as the tax proposal included in the health-care reform bill recently approved the finance committee of the u.s. senate which would assess an annual tax on the revenue of medical device manufacturers based upon market share. guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of our products. for example, recently, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists changed their recommendations for pap smear screening, and the united states preventive services task force changed their recommendations for mammography screening. these new recommendations, if implemented, could significantly reduce the amount of screening using our thinprep, mammography and related products and adversely affect the sale of those products. moreover, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations, guidelines or studies will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect prevailing market price for our common stock. our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and treatments and enhance our existing products and treatments. we are expending significant resources on our continuing research and development programs which are designed to develop new products and treatments and to enhance and improve our existing products and treatments. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays in development or the fda approval or clearance process; access to capital; 20 table of contents budget overruns; third party intellectual property; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for products or 510(k) clearance. given the uncertainties inherent with product development, introduction, and enhancement our efforts may not be completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements, such as our digital mammography tomosynthesis product, on a timely basis or within budget, if at all, could harm our business and prospects. if we fail to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our products require, we may not be successful in developing and marketing those products. the manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products in sufficient quantities. these difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products. our difficulties may lead to increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. problems with manufacturing could result in our inability to deliver products, inventory shortages, product recalls and increased costs. we manufacture our own commercial requirements for all of our products except the mammopad. certain of our products are difficult to manufacture and problems in our manufacturing processes can occur, resulting in product defects or contamination, shipment delays and recalls. these events could result in lower revenues and loss of market share as well as result in inventory write-offs and impair our ability to expand into new markets or supply products in existing markets. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products and treatments or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. our products and treatments are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements, such as our dimensions digital mammography tomosynthesis product, could harm our business and prospects. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. recently we have encountered delays in the fda approval process relating to the 3d configuration of our dimensions digital mammography tomosynthesis product and are conducting additional clinical trials in support of our application to for a pma for that product. we cannot assure that the additional clinical trials will be successful, that we will be able to obtain fda approval to market the product, or the scope of any such approval, if and when obtained. additionally, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without clearance or approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect its safety or effectiveness require a 21 table of contents pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civic sanctions, including but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. the markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected. during fiscal 2009, we received fda approval for our cervista hpv hr and 16/18 tests, our adiana system, and fda clearance of our mammosite ml radiation therapy system. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies; perceptions of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments; recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not addressed until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our products and treatments, such as those noted above-, as well as our dimensions digital mammography tomosynthesis product, due to, among other things, the lack of reimbursement codes or disadvantageous reimbursement levels for such products or treatments, our sales growth, business and prospects could be harmed. our business may be harmed by recently completed acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. we have acquired a number of businesses, technologies, product lines, and products in our recent past, including third wave and cytyc in fiscal 2008, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. the long-term success of our recently completed acquisitions and any additional acquisitions we may complete in the 22 table of contents future will depend upon our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our business. we may fail to realize anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully obtain fda approval or clearance for products under development; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; potential difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the sec; and potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition of such companies, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; an acquisition may result in future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we paid for them; an acquisition may involve restructuring operations or reductions in workforce which may result in substantial charges to our operations; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax decisions and/or changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from combining acquired businesses could harm our business and prospects and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we will be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. 23 table of contents the historical levels of sales growth experienced by our newly introduced products may not be indicative of future growth as the markets for our products mature. historically, the demand for our products and treatments is greatest upon their initial introduction. however, once markets mature, growth in the market may abruptly stop or significantly slow or demand may decline. during fiscal 2009, the demand for certain of our products, such as our direct-to-digital full-field mammography products that had previously experienced rapid growth, declined. we often cannot predict when, or at what rate, the demand for any of our products may decline. slackening demand or reduced growth rates-for our products could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system and our molecular diagnostic products. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system and our molecular diagnostic products that were added with the third wave acquisition. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest united states laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. our business and prospects may be harmed if we are unable to increase sales to, or maintain pricing levels with our existing customers and establish new customers both within and outside the united states. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and related industries. we have been involved in patent litigation, and may in the future be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. as examples, we are currently defending ourselves against infringement complaints filed by ethicon endo-surgery, inc., a johnson &amp; johnson operating company and conceptus, inc. for further information regarding these complaints, please refer to item 3. legal proceedings. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. in addition, we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. the rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united 24 table of contents states are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. even if we believed our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. our international operations expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. we are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations. any of these risks or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. these risks and expenses include: difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; greater difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; governmental currency controls; multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements, international trade regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act); reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; political and economic changes and disruptions; clone or knock off products; the inability to effectively obtain or enforce intellectual property rights; export/import controls; and tariff regulations. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany and costa rica and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollar, with a majority of our sales to international dealers denominated in u.s. dollars. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we have historically hedged, and may in the future hedge, our foreign currency exposure by borrowing funds in local european currencies to pay the expenses of our foreign offices. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we manufacture our products at a number of different facilities located throughout the world. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. because some of our manufacturing operations are located in germany and costa rica, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below. our business could be harmed if products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. our existing and newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recall or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. this reliance could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. 26 table of contents our success depends on our ability to manage growth effectively. our failure to manage the growth of our business and scope of our operations effectively could harm our business and prospects. such growth may significantly strain our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. to manage such growth effectively, it is expected that we will continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls, and to effectively retain, expand, train and manage our employee base. we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. some of our competitors are large companies that may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: significantly greater name recognition; established distribution networks; additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain competitive advantage; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and financial capabilities; and greater financial resources allowing them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. other companies may develop products that are superior to or less expensive, or both, than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introductions of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed. our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. these trends will likely continue into the foreseeable future. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasing customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation and seasonal fluctuation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products and treatments; 27 table of contents economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell; regulatory approval of products; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; and complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( u.s. gaap ). customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. recent proposed changes to reclassify full-field digital mammography to permit 510(k) clearance could increase competition for our digital mammography products. on may 23, 2006, the fda radiological devices panel recommended the reclassification of full-field digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii devices. the fda has issued guidance on full field digital mammography for public comment during 2008. if the fda implements the panel recommendation, the reclassification would allow full-field digital mammography systems to be cleared for commercialization through the 510(k) process, which is less rigorous than the present pre-market approval process. if and when implemented, the reclassification for full-field digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii devices may lower barriers of entry into the digital mammography market, may result in more competitors entering the united states market and could harm sales of our digital mammography systems. a fda panel meeting was held on november 17, 2009 to review public comments on the proposed ffdm guidance. our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving fda clearance or approval, which could harm our business and prospects. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could harm the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the medicare/medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other 28 table of contents potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, we are subject to the provisions of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, which prohibits payments to foreign officials. while we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product competitive position in the market. the sale and use of one of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, inaccurate test results or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. our future success depends on the continued services of key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel, is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. 29 table of contents our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business and prospects. we have entered into alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships. alliances with certain partners or companies could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for alliances or joint ventures; assure that any alliance or joint venture candidate will provide us with the support anticipated; successfully negotiate an alliance or joint venture on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. furthermore, any alliance or joint venture may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous alliance or joint venture, failing to manage an alliance or joint venture effectively, or failing to comply with obligations in connection therewith, could harm our business and prospects. an adverse change in the projected cash flows from our acquired businesses or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic downturn, could require us to incur an impairment charge which would have an adverse impact on our operating results. we periodically review the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. conditions that would indicate impairment and necessitate a revaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. in addition, the deterioration of a company market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. if the carrying value of an asset is determined to be impaired we will write-down the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its fair value in the period identified. we generally calculate fair value as the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset or asset group using a risk-adjusted discount rate. during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, based upon a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we concluded that potential goodwill impairment indicators existed as of december 27, 2008. as a result, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of december 27, 2008. the step 1 impairment analysis indicated that the carrying value of the net assets of three of the company reporting units, acquired in connection with the cytyc acquisition, exceeded the estimated fair value of those reporting units. as a result, the company was required to perform step 2 of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment charges for each of the applicable reporting units. due to the complexities and time involved in preparing the step 1 analysis, the company had not commenced the step 2 analysis as of february 5, 2009, the date it filed its form 10-q for the quarter ended december 27, 2008. as a result of the fact that the company had not commenced the step 2 analysis and the complexity of the analysis required to complete the step 2 analysis, the company was unable to determine that an impairment loss, in accordance with asc 450 (formerly sfas no. 5, accounting for contingencies ), was both probable and reasonably estimable at december 27, 2008. the company completed the step 2 analysis during its second quarter of fiscal 2009, which resulted in an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion. this impairment charge is comprised of $1.17 billion for gyn surgical, $908.3 million for diagnostics, and $265.9 million for breast health. for further information of these charges, please refer to note 2 in our consolidated financial statements contained in item 15 of this annual report. 30 table of contents during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill, and no additional impairment charges were required. it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic turmoil could negatively affect our anticipated cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each reporting unit, to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test in fiscal 2010. such a requirement could result in a material impairment charge that would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. as a global medical devices company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. in preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. our effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, unfavorable results of audits of our tax filings, our inability to secure or sustain arrangements with tax authorities, and previously enacted and future changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate, among other things, may cause us to be obligated to accrue for future tax payments in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements. several proposals to reform u.s. tax rules are being considered by u.s. law makers, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of u.s. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to be taxed at the u.s. federal income tax rate, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings. we are exposed to potential risks and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of september 26, 2009 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute a material weakness. as a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. we expect to continue to incur significant costs to maintain compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we continue to monitor controls for any weaknesses or deficiencies. no evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. the effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. in addition, as we continue to expand globally, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls will increase and will require that we continue to improve our internal controls over financial reporting. in the future, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting which may result in a loss of public confidence in our internal controls and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. in addition, any failure to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. 31 table of contents risks related to our indebtedness we have incurred significant indebtedness that limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. on december 10, 2007, we issued $1.725 billion of 2.0% convertible notes due 2037 (the convertible notes ), which are unsecured and subordinated to our secured indebtedness. these notes may be put to us at par on december 13, 2013 and each fifth anniversary thereafter beginning december 15, 2017. in addition, at september 26, 2009, we had $174.2 million outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, which bears interest at variable rates. additionally, certain other of our indebtedness may remain outstanding. our level of indebtedness may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. in addition, the terms of our credit facility contains covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets; engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; pay dividends or make other distributions; voluntarily prepay other indebtedness; enter into transactions with affiliated persons; make investments; and change the nature of our businesses. our credit facility also requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt may be permitted to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 32 table of contents we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our obligations, including our obligations under our credit facilities. our ability to make payments on and to refinance the indebtedness under our credit facilities and the convertible notes or any other of our obligations or indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this is the case, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. the accounting for convertible debt securities such as our convertible notes is subject to change that will result in a significant increase in the accrual of interest expense under those notes. the accounting for convertible debt securities such as our convertible notes is subject to frequent scrutiny by the accounting regulatory bodies and is subject to change. in may 2008, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued fasb staff position ( fsp ) no. apb 14-1, accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement ) (codified within accounting standards codification ( asc ) 470, debt ). this accounting guidance applies to convertible debt instruments (such as our convertible notes) that, by their stated terms, may be settled in cash (or other assets) upon conversion, including partial cash settlement, unless the embedded conversion option is required to be separately accounted for as a derivative under asc 815, derivatives and hedging (formerly sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities ). as a result of the issuance of this fsp, the liability and equity components of our convertible notes must be separately accounted for in a manner that will reflect our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. the excess of the principal amount of the debt over the amount ultimately allocated to the liability component is required to be amortized to interest expense using the interest method. this fsp is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. as a result, we will adopt this standard at the beginning of fiscal 2010. this fsp must be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. the retrospective adoption of this fsp will increase our historical reported interest expense from december 10, 2007 (issuance date of the convertible notes) forward. upon adoption, we expect to revise prior periods by reclassifying approximately $470.0 million of our convertible notes to additional paid-in capital, resulting in a debt discount. as a result, our fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 non-cash interest expense will increase by approximately $65.5 million and $48.1 million, respectively, resulting in a restated diluted net loss per share of approximately $(8.64) and $(1.69), respectively. future periods would be similarly affected by amortization of the debt discount as an interest expense. in fiscal 2010, we expect to record approximately an additional $71.1 million of non-cash interest expense. 33 table of contents risks related to our common stock and convertible notes future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our convertible notes, or any common stock that note holders receive upon conversion of their notes. future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. in addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options or for other reasons. provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; 34 table of contents general conditions in the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; and pending healthcare reform and proposed legislation. the price of our common stock also may be adversely affected by the amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. to the extent we issue any shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes, the conversion of some or all of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of our convertible notes. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of our convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of our convertible notes could depress the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . asc 825, financial instruments (formerly sfas no. 107, disclosure of fair value of financial instruments ), requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and debt obligations. except for our outstanding convertible note, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. as of september 26, 2009 we have $1.725 billion of convertible notes outstanding. the fair value of our convertible notes was approximately $1.4 billion as of september 26, 2009 based on the trading price as of that date. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our amended credit agreement and to a much lesser extent the debt assumed in our acquisition of aeg, which as of september 26, 2009 is $1.5 million. borrowings under the amended credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, with respect to the borrowings under the term loan a of either (1) the base rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in the wall street journal and the federal funds effective rate) plus 1.25%, which was reduced from 1.50% in may 2009 or (2) the eurodollar rate, plus 2.25%, which was reduced from 2.50% in may 2009, and with respect to the term loan b of either (1) the base rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in the wall street journal and the federal funds effective rate) plus 2.25% or (2) the eurodollar rate, plus 3.25%. as of september 26, 2009, there was approximately $174.2 million outstanding under the amended credit agreement, including $124.7 million under the term loan a facility which matures on september 30, 2012 and $49.5 million under the term loan b facility which matures on march 31, 2013. subsequent to september 26, 2009, we paid an additional $24.6 million of principal resulting in an outstanding balance of $149.6 million at the time of filing this form 10-k. these debt obligations are variable rate instruments and our interest expense associated with these instruments is, therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. a 10% adverse movement (increase in libor) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $1.3 million. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. interest income on our cash and cash equivalents is recorded as a component of other (expense) income, net in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. 79 table of contents we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany and costa rica and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales are denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollars. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses denominated in euros are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, we incurred foreign exchange losses of $2.3 million, $0.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively.risk factors this report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. such statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. risks related to our business the continuing worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects. market acceptance of our medical products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patient medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. the continuing uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and continuing weak worldwide macroeconomic conditions have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. additionally, constrictions in world credit markets have caused and may continue to cause our customers to experience increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. economic uncertainty has and may result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. furthermore, governments and other third party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. if the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be adversely affected. sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent upon the coverage and reimbursement decisions made by third party payors. the failure of third party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our medical products and the treatments facilitated by our products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. market acceptance of our products and treatments has and will continue to depend upon our customers ability to obtain an appropriate level of coverage for, and reimbursement from third-party payors for, these products and treatments. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, known as cms, establish coverage and reimbursement policies for healthcare providers treating medicare and medicaid beneficiaries. under current cms policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our products and treatments. coverage policies for medicare patients may vary by regional medicare carriers in the absence of a national coverage decision and reimbursement rates for treatments may vary based on the geographic price index. coverage and reimbursement policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by cms. the use of our products and treatments outside the united states is similarly affected by coverage and reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments and private insurance carriers. on november 2, 2010, cms announced 2011 reimbursement rates for physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. the cms announcement included many reimbursement reductions, including a general reduction of 24% in the sustainable growth rate ( sgr ) factor impacting physician services reimbursement. this factor is used by cms in a formula to determine physician reimbursement rates. significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any of our products, and uncertainties relating to such reimbursement rates, have had and may continue to have a material adverse affect on the sales of those products. 20 table of contents the adoption of healthcare reform in the united states and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of these reforms could harm our business and prospects. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. the effect of the implementation of the new u.s. health care reform law adopted in march 2010 on our business is uncertain. among other things, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on u.s. sales of certain medical devices beginning in 2013. we expect that this excise tax will apply to our products. u.s. net product sales represented 79% and 80% of our worldwide net product sales in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. the new law and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. in addition, the excise tax will increase our costs of doing business. the impact of this law and these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products and treatments; reduce reimbursement available for such use; further tax the sale or use of our products; or adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted. these reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects. changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. we anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. 21 table of contents guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of our products. for example, during calendar 2009, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists changed their recommendations for pap smear screening, and the united states preventive services task force changed their recommendations for mammography screening. these new recommendations, if implemented, could significantly reduce the amount of screening using our thinprep, mammography and related products and adversely affect the sale of those products. moreover, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations, guidelines or studies will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect prevailing market price for our common stock. our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and treatments and enhance our existing products and treatments. we are expending significant resources on our continuing research and development programs which are designed to develop new products and treatments and to enhance and improve our existing products and treatments. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays in development, clinical trials or the fda approval or clearance process; access to capital; budget overruns; third party intellectual property; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for products or 510(k) clearance. given the uncertainties inherent with product development, introduction, and enhancement our efforts may not be completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements, such as our digital mammography tomosynthesis product, on a timely basis or within budget, if at all, could harm our business and prospects. if we fail to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our products require, we may not be successful in developing and marketing those products. the manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products in sufficient quantities. these difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products. our difficulties may lead to increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. 22 table of contents our business could be harmed if products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. our existing and newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recall or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving fda clearance or approval, which could harm our business and prospects. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could harm the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we manufacture our products at a number of different facilities located throughout the world. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. because some of our manufacturing operations are located in germany and costa rica, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products and treatments or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. our products and treatments are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements, such as our dimensions digital mammography tomosynthesis product, could harm our business and prospects. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. we had previously encountered delays in the fda approval process relating to the 3d configuration of our dimensions digital mammography tomosynthesis product and conducted additional clinical trials in support of our application to for a pma for that product. on september 24, 2010, the radiological devices panel of the fda unanimously voted that the pma application demonstrated both the effectiveness and safety of the dimensions 3d system for both screening and diagnostic mammography. on november 22, 2010, we received an approvable letter from the fda for our dimensions 3d system. final approval of our pma application for our system remains subject to satisfactory review and inspection of our manufacturing facility, methods and controls. even with this approvable letter, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain fda approval to market the product, or the scope of any such approval, if and when obtained. additionally, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without clearance or approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect its safety or effectiveness require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time- 23 table of contents consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civic sanctions, including but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. the markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies; perceptions of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments; recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not addressed until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our products and treatments, such as those noted above, as well as our dimensions digital mammography tomosynthesis product, due to, among other things, the lack of reimbursement codes or disadvantageous reimbursement levels for such products or treatments, our sales growth, business and prospects could be harmed. 24 table of contents our business may be harmed by recently completed acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. we have acquired a number of businesses, technologies, product lines and products, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. the long-term success of our recently completed acquisitions and any additional acquisitions we may complete in the future will depend upon our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our business. we may fail to realize anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully obtain fda approval or clearance for products under development; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; potential difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the sec; and potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition of such companies, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; an acquisition may result in future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we paid for them; an acquisition may involve restructuring operations or reductions in workforce which may result in substantial charges to our operations; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax decisions and/or changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from combining acquired businesses could harm our business and prospects and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 25 table of contents if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our growth, including: expanding our product offerings; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; acquiring technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services; implementing targeted customer initiatives; and supporting cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our breadth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the growth of our business. our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. we may not be able to identify and successfully complete transactions. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, acquisitions in foreign countries may be more difficult to complete, integrate and operate and could adversely affect our business. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system and our molecular diagnostic products. we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system and our molecular diagnostic products. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest united states laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. our business and prospects may be harmed if we are unable to increase sales to, or maintain pricing levels with our existing customers and establish new customers both within and outside the united states. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, and copyrights to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be 26 table of contents issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. in addition, we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. the rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united states are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. even if we believed our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and related industries. we have been involved in patent litigation, and may in the future be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. for further information concerning such ongoing litigation, please refer to item 3. legal proceedings. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. we are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations. any of these risks or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. these risks and expenses include: difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; greater difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; governmental currency controls; 27 table of contents multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements, international trade regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act); reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; political and economic changes and disruptions; clone or knock off products; the inability to effectively obtain or enforce intellectual property rights; export/import controls; and tariff regulations. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica and canada, and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollar. historically, a majority of our sales of capital equipment to international dealers have been denominated in u.s. dollars; however in the second half of fiscal 2010 we began to invoice more of our european sales in the euro. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. in the last few years we have not hedged foreign currency exposures, but we may in the future hedge foreign currency denominated sales. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. this reliance could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. some of our competitors are large companies that may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: significantly greater name recognition; established, or larger, distribution networks; 28 table of contents additional product lines, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and financial capabilities; and greater financial resources allowing them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. other companies may develop products that are superior to or less expensive, or both, than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introductions of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed. our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. these trends will likely continue into the foreseeable future. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasing customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products and treatments; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell and markets we serve; regulatory approval of products; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap); asset impairments; and seasonality of sales of certain of our products. 29 table of contents customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. recent changes to reclassify full-field digital mammography to permit 510(k) clearance could increase competition for our digital mammography products. recently, the fda issued a notice that they have down-classified 2d digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii. as a result, it is expected that effective early december 2010, these systems will require a 510(k) submission rather than a pma, which will make it easier for other mammography vendors to gain approval in the united states. we anticipate that competition in the digital mammography market will intensify as more companies and products enter this market. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the medicare/medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the fcpa, which prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. in many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the fcpa. while we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product competitive position in the market. the sale and use of one of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, inaccurate test results or caused injuries to a 30 table of contents patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. our future success depends on the continued services of key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel, is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business and prospects. we have entered into alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships. alliances with certain partners or companies could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for alliances or joint ventures; assure that any alliance or joint venture candidate will provide us with the support anticipated; successfully negotiate an alliance or joint venture on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. furthermore, any alliance or joint venture may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous alliance or joint venture, failing to manage an alliance or joint venture effectively, or failing to comply with obligations in connection therewith, could harm our business and prospects. an adverse change in the projected cash flows from our business units or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic downturn, could require us to incur an impairment charge which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. at least annually we review the carrying value of our goodwill, and for other long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present, to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. in addition, the 31 table of contents deterioration of a company market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. we assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and in evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 in connection with our annual budgeting process and future revenue forecasting, we determined that indicators of impairment existed in our mammosite reporting unit as the breastbrachy therapy market has and will continue to experience certain challenges, including the impact of the continued adverse economic environment negatively impacting procedure volume as well as current trends in breast cancer management, competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies. this updated market view resulted in us lowering our long-term financial projections. as a result, we performed the first step in the long-lived assets impairment test and compared mammosite forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its net assets, and these cash flows were insufficient to recover mammosite carrying value. therefore, we determined the fair value of mammosite long-lived assets, which are primarily intangible assets, using a discounted cash flow technique, considering market participant assumptions, and recorded an impairment charge of $143.5 million to write these intangible assets down to their fair value. in addition, under the annual goodwill impairment test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $76.7 million. for further information of these charges, refer to note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in item 15 of this annual report. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill for our other reporting units, and no additional impairment charges were required. in connection with this review, we identified one reporting unit with a material amount of goodwill that is of higher risk of potential failure of the first step of the impairment test in future reporting periods. although we use reasonable methodologies for developing assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic uncertainty could negatively affect our anticipated future cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each reporting unit, to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test in fiscal 2011. such a requirement could result in a material impairment charge that would have an adverse impact on our operating results. during fiscal 2009, driven by a combination of factors, including the deteriorating macro-economic environment, declines in the stock market and the decline of our market capitalization significantly below the book value of our net assets, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test and recorded an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $2.34 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. this impairment charge was comprised of $1.17 billion for gyn surgical, $908.3 million for diagnostics, and $265.9 million for breast health. for further information of these charges, please refer to note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in item 15 of this annual report. our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we take certain income tax positions on our tax returns that we provide additional taxes for if it is more likely than not they will not withstand challenge by tax authorities. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, including the united states, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly evaluate the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and tax reserves. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income of financial condition. in addition, our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 32 table of contents changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. there are several proposals to reform u.s. tax rules being considered by u.s. law makers, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of u.s. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to be taxed at the u.s. federal income tax rate, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings. risks related to our indebtedness we have incurred significant indebtedness that limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. on december 10, 2007, we issued $1.725 billion of 2.00% convertible notes due 2037, which are unsecured and subordinated to our secured indebtedness. on november 18, 2010, we entered into separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements under which we retired $450.0 million in aggregate principal of our original notes for $450.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% convertible exchange senior notes due 2037. following these transactions, $1.275 billion in principal amount of the original notes remain outstanding. our level of indebtedness may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. if there were an event of default under our convertible notes or a change of control, the holders of the notes may be permitted to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our convertible notes if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on that debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our obligations. our ability to make payments on our convertible notes or any other of our obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this is the case, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to implement one or more 33 table of contents alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. risks related to our common stock and convertible notes future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our convertible notes, or any common stock that note holders receive upon conversion of their notes. future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. in addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options or for other reasons. provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. 34 table of contents our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; and the implementation of recently adopted healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future. the price of our common stock also may be adversely affected by the amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. to the extent we issue any shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes, the conversion of some or all of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of our convertible notes. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of our convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of our convertible notes could depress the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . asc 825, financial instruments , requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, cost-method investments, accounts payable and debt obligations. except for our outstanding convertible note, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. at september 25, 2010, we had $1.725 billion of principal of convertible notes outstanding, which was recorded at $1.45 billion, net of the unamortized debt discount. the fair value of our convertible notes was approximately $1.62 billion as of september 25, 2010 based on the trading price as of that date. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the united states as well as manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica and canada. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the euro and u.s. dollar. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses denominated in euros are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred net foreign exchange losses of $1.1 million, $2.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively.risk factors this report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. such statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. risks related to our business the continuing worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects. market acceptance of our medical products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patient medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. the continuing uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and continuing weak worldwide macroeconomic conditions have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. additionally, constrictions in world credit markets have caused and may continue to cause our customers to experience increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums and co-payments may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. furthermore, governments and other third party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. if the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted. sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent upon the coverage and reimbursement decisions made by third party payors. the failure of third party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our medical products and the treatments facilitated by our products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. market acceptance of our products and treatments has and will continue to depend upon our customers ability to obtain an appropriate level of coverage for, and reimbursement from third-party payors for, these products and treatments. in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, known as cms, establish coverage and reimbursement policies for healthcare providers treating medicare and medicaid beneficiaries. under current cms policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our products and treatments. coverage policies for medicare patients may vary by regional medicare carriers in the absence of a national coverage decision and reimbursement rates for treatments may vary based on the geographic price index. coverage and reimbursement policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by cms. the use of our products and treatments outside the united states is similarly affected by coverage and reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments and private insurance carriers. in november 2011, cms announced 2012 reimbursement rates for physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. for 2011, as part of us healthcare reform legislation, which was passed on march 23, 2010, reimbursement for bone density screening in 2010 and 2011 was adjusted to 70% of the 2006 rates. this resulted in an approximate increase of 60% of the rates published in the 2010 cms physician fee schedule. however, unless future legislation is adopted, the reimbursement for bone density screening will revert in 2012 to the prior cms physician fee schedule, which would result in an over 40% reduction in reimbursement for 21 table of contents such screening, as compared to 2011 reimbursement rates. the cms reimbursement rates for 2012 also include a general reduction of 27% in the sustainable growth rate ( sgr ) factor. this factor is used by cms in a formula to determine doctor reimbursements and, if implemented, would correspondingly affect the reimbursement for the use of our products. congress has, from time to time, overridden some or all of the proposed reductions in reimbursement. however, we cannot assure that congress will override any part of the recent proposed reductions. significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products has had and may continue to have a material adverse affect on the sales of those products. cms has not adopted a reimbursement rate for the use of 3d tomosynthesis, as tomosynthesis was only recently approved by the fda in february 2011 in connection with our pma application for our dimensions system. we are working with governmental authorities, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in our efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis. however, we cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis would adversely affect sales of our dimensions 3d systems. the adoption of healthcare reform in the united states and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of these reforms could harm our business and prospects. the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. the effect of the implementation of the new u.s. health care reform law, adopted in march 2010, on our business is uncertain. among other things, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on u.s. sales of certain medical devices beginning in 2013. we expect that this excise tax will apply to our products. u.s. net product sales represented 76%, 79% and 80% of our worldwide net product sales in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. the new law and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. in addition, the excise tax will increase our costs of doing business. the impact of this law and these proposals could harm our business and prospects, results of operations and/or financial condition. public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products and treatments; reduce reimbursement available for such use; further tax the sale or use of our products; or adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted. these reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects. changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; 22 table of contents changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. we anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by healthcare providers and insurers could result in decreased use of our products. for example, during calendar 2009, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists changed their recommendations for cervical cancer screening, and the united states preventive services task force (uspstf) changed their recommendations for mammography screening, in each case, to recommend less frequent screening. on october 19, 2011, the uspstf published draft guidelines for public comment on cervical cancer screening which may reduce the utilization of thinprep and / or cervista due to recommending less frequent screening and not recommending hpv co-testing. all of these new recommendations, if implemented, could significantly reduce the amount of screening using our cervical cancer screening, mammography and related products and adversely affect the sale of those products. moreover, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations, guidelines or studies will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and treatments and enhance our existing products and treatments. we are expending significant resources on our continuing research and development programs which are designed to develop new products and treatments and to enhance and improve our existing products and treatments. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays in development, clinical trials or the fda approval or clearance process; access to capital; budget overruns; third party intellectual property; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for products or 510(k) clearance. given the uncertainties inherent with product development, introduction, and enhancement our efforts may not be completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget, if at all, could harm our business and prospects. 23 table of contents if we fail to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our products require, we may not be successful in developing and marketing those products. the manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products in sufficient quantities. these difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products and may lead to increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. our business could be harmed if products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. our existing and newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recall or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving fda clearance or approval, which could harm our business and prospects. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could harm the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we manufacture our products at a number of different facilities located throughout the world. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. because some of our manufacturing operations are located in germany, costa rica and china, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products and treatments or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. our products and treatments are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. in addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. 24 table of contents medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without clearance or approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect its safety or effectiveness require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civic sanctions, including but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. the markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies; perceptions of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments; recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not addressed until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments our business and prospects could be harmed. the market for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system may not develop as expected. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products may not continue to develop as expected. there is a significant installed base of conventional digital and screen-film mammography products in hospitals and radiological practices. the use of our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system in many cases would require these potential customers to either modify or replace their existing x-ray imaging equipment. as our 25 table of contents dimensions 3d tomosynthesis systems are generally more expensive than conventional mammography products, we believe that a major factor in the market acceptance of dimensions 3d tomosynthesis systems has been and will continue to be based upon the benefits of tomosynthesis as compared to less expensive technologies. moreover, as a new technology, there is currently limited, if any, reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis. we believe that our ability to continue to gain market acceptance of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and follow-on products depends on our ability to demonstrate the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and to secure reimbursement to support the use of 3d tomosynthesis. we are seeking to work with healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in connection with our efforts to promote, and to secure reimbursement for, the use of 3d tomosynthesis. however, we cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. the market for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products has and will continue to be affected by published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of tomosynthesis, as well as decisions relating to the reimbursement of healthcare providers for the use of the system. the publication of an adverse study, or an adverse decision relating to the reimbursement of the use of tomosynthesis, would likely significantly impair the adoption of this technology and harm our business. our sales of our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system may also be adversely affected by increased competition. several companies, including siemens, giotto, philips and planmed, have recently introduced 3d tomosynthesis systems in certain foreign countries. we also are aware that other companies, several of which have substantially greater resources than we have, such as ge and siemens, are developing 3d tomosynthesis systems for approval in the u.s. because the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products are relatively new, it is likely that our evaluation of the potential markets for these products will materially vary with time. our business may be harmed by our acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. we have acquired a number of businesses, technologies, product lines and products, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. the long-term success of our acquisitions and any additional acquisitions we may complete in the future will depend upon our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our business. we may fail to realize anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully obtain fda approval or clearance for products under development; failure to successfully obtain approval or clearance for products in foreign countries; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; potential difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the sec; and 26 table of contents potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition of such companies, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; an acquisition may result in future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we paid for them; an acquisition may involve restructuring operations or reductions in workforce which may result in substantial charges to our operations; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; an acquisition may involve significant deferred or contingent payments that may adversely affect our future liquidity or capital resources; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax decisions and/or changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from combining acquired businesses could harm our business and prospects and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition, and may be dilutive to our stockholders. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. our business may be harmed by the contingent earnout obligations we incurred in connection with our acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. in connection with our acquisitions, we have incurred the obligation to make contingent earnout payments tied to performance criteria, principally revenue growth of the acquired businesses over a specified period. we also expect that acquisitions we may complete in the future may contain contingent earnout payments, and these payments could be significant. in certain circumstances, such as a change of control, a portion of these obligations may be accelerated. in addition, contractual provisions relating to these contingent earnout obligations may include covenants to operate the businesses acquired in a manner that may not otherwise be most advantageous to us. these provisions may also result in the risk of litigation relating to the calculation of the amount due or our operation of the business acquired. such litigation could be expensive and divert management attention and resources. our obligation to make contingent payments may also result in significant operating expenses. depending upon the particular facts and circumstances giving rise to the payment and our previous estimates, all or a portion of these payments may be required to be expensed by us when accrued. for example, our contingent earnout obligations payable in connection with the tct and healthcome acquisitions will be fully expensed as accrued because our obligation to make these payments have been conditioned on the continued employment of certain key employees of tct and healthcome. we cannot assure that we will have sufficient funds to pay our contingent obligations when due, or that such obligations, including the associated covenants relating to the operation of the acquired business, will not otherwise adversely affect our business, liquidity, capital resources or results of operations. 27 table of contents it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our growth, including: expanding our product offerings; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; acquiring technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services; implementing targeted customer initiatives; and supporting cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of our breadth in product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the growth of our business. our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could harm our business and prospects. our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. we may not be able to identify and successfully complete transactions. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired company. further, we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, acquisitions in foreign countries may be more difficult to complete, integrate and operate and could adversely affect our business. consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could harm our business and prospects. the cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. this consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition and continue to exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of the thinprep system and our molecular diagnostic products. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest united states laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. 28 table of contents our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, and copyrights to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. in addition, we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. the rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united states are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. even if we believed our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and related industries. we have been involved in patent litigation, and may in the future be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. for further information concerning such ongoing litigation, please refer to item 3. legal proceedings. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. we are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations, including our acquired businesses in china. any of these risks or expenses could harm our operating results. these risks and expenses include: difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; 29 table of contents the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; governmental currency controls; multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements, international trade regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act); reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; the inability to effectively obtain or enforce intellectual property rights and otherwise protect against clone or knock off products, and; the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in china and other foreign countries. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica, canada and china and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollar. historically, a majority of our sales of capital equipment to international dealers have been denominated in u.s. dollars; however in the second half of fiscal 2010 we began to invoice more of our european sales in the euro. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. in the last few years we have not hedged foreign currency exposures, but we may in the future hedge foreign currency denominated sales. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. this reliance could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. 30 table of contents we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. some of our competitors are large companies that may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: significantly greater name recognition; established, or larger, distribution networks; additional product lines, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; higher levels of automation and more substantial installed bases of such equipment; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and financial capabilities; and greater financial resources allowing them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. other companies may develop products that are superior to or less expensive, or both, than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introductions of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed. our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. these trends will likely continue into the foreseeable future. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasing customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products and treatments; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell and markets we serve; 31 table of contents regulatory approval of products; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap); asset impairments; and seasonality of sales of certain of our products. customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. recent changes to reclassify full-field digital mammography to permit 510(k) clearance could increase competition for our digital mammography products. the fda has down-classified 2d digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii. as a result, these systems will require a 510(k) submission rather than a pma, which will make it easier for other mammography vendors to gain approval in the united states. we anticipate that competition in the digital mammography market will intensify as more companies and products enter this market. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the medicare/medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the fcpa, which prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. in many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the fcpa. while we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business 32 table of contents partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal or confidential business information. in addition, an associate, contractor, or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. any such compromise of our data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to transact business with us, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product competitive position in the market. the sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, inaccurate test results or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. we may incur losses in excess of our insurance coverage. our insurance coverage includes product liability, property, fire, terrorism and business interruption policies. our insurance coverage contains policy limits, specifications and exclusions. we believe that our insurance coverage is consistent with general practices within our industry. nonetheless, we may incur losses of a type for which we are not covered by insurance or which exceed the limits of liability of our insurance policies. in that event, we could experience a significant loss which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition. our future success depends on the continued services of key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or 33 table of contents strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel, is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business and prospects. we have entered into alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships. alliances with certain partners or companies could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for alliances or joint ventures; assure that any alliance or joint venture candidate will provide us with the support anticipated; successfully negotiate an alliance or joint venture on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. furthermore, any alliance or joint venture may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous alliance or joint venture, failing to manage an alliance or joint venture effectively, or failing to comply with obligations in connection therewith, could harm our business and prospects. an adverse change in the projected cash flows from our business units or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic uncertainty, could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. at least annually, we review the carrying value of our goodwill, and for other long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present, to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. in addition, the deterioration of a company market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. we assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and in evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. as a result of this assessment, we recorded significant impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets in fiscal 2009 and 2010. for further information of these charges, refer to note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in item 15 of this annual report. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill for our reporting units, and no additional impairment charges were required. although we use reasonable methodologies for developing assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic uncertainty could negatively affect our anticipated future cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each reporting unit, to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test in fiscal 2012. we have ongoing litigation with conceptus regarding potential patent infringement of a conceptus patent by our adiana system. in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the jury returned a verdict in favor of conceptus and awarded conceptus $18.8 million in damages. post trial motions will be filed addressing certain issues that could impact the ultimate outcome of this case. we also expect that conceptus will seek to enjoin us from further sales of the adiana system. a hearing on the post trial motions and injunctions request is scheduled for december 22, 2011. the jury verdict and any such determinations are subject to appeal by either party. if conceptus is successful in upholding the verdict, we may be required to remove the adiana system from the market. the jury verdict and subsequent litigation status may be an indicator of impairment for our gyn surgical reporting unit. a reduction in the anticipated future cash flows of our gyn 34 table of contents surgical reporting unit could result in a material impairment charge that would have an adverse impact on our operating results. we will further evaluate this matter in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and will perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis and a long-lived asset impairment analysis, if required. our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we take certain income tax positions on our tax returns that we provide additional taxes if it is more likely than not they will not withstand challenge by tax authorities. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, including the united states, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly evaluate the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and tax reserves. however, we cannot assure that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. there are several proposals to reform u.s. tax rules being considered by u.s. law makers, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of u.s. income tax on our unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to be taxed at the u.s. federal income tax rate, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our unrepatriated earnings. risks related to our indebtedness we have incurred significant indebtedness that may limit our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. on december 10, 2007, we issued $1.725 billion of 2.00% convertible notes due 2037, which are unsecured and subordinated to our secured indebtedness. on november 18, 2010, we entered into separate, privately-negotiated exchange agreements under which we retired $450.0 million in aggregate principal of our original notes for $450.0 million in aggregate principal of new 2.00% convertible exchange senior notes due 2037. following these transactions, $1.275 billion in principal amount of the original notes remain outstanding. our level of indebtedness may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. if there were an event of default under our convertible notes or a change of control, the holders of the notes may be permitted to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately 35 table of contents and may be cross-defaulted to other debt or obligations. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our convertible notes, and related deferred tax liabilities, when due or if accelerated upon an event of default, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on that debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our obligations. our ability to make payments on our convertible notes, and related deferred tax liabilities, or any other of our obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. at final maturity of our convertible notes or in the event of acceleration of our convertible notes following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the convertible notes will become due and payable. in addition, each holder of our original convertible notes (aggregate principal amount of $1.275 billion) may require us to repurchase such holder notes on december 13, 2013, and each of december 15, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032 or upon a fundamental change, including a change of control, and each holder of our exchange convertible notes (aggregate principal amount of $450.0 million) may require us to repurchase such holder notes on december 15, 2016, and on each of december 15, 2020, december 15, 2025, december 13, 2030 and december 14, 2035 or upon a fundamental change. in each such case, the repurchase price would be equal to 100% of the note accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. if we were unable to make the required payments or repurchases of any of our convertible notes, it would likely constitute an event of default under all the convertible notes. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or other obligations as such indebtedness or other obligations mature or otherwise become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this is the case, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and we cannot assure that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to implement one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. risks related to our common stock and convertible notes future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our convertible notes, or any common stock that note holders receive upon conversion of their notes. 36 table of contents future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. in addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options or for other reasons. provisions in our charter, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future, and; the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. the price of our common stock also may be adversely affected by the amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, cost-method equity investments, insurance contracts and related dcp liability, accounts payable and debt obligations. except for our outstanding convertible notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. as of september 24, 2011, we have $1.725 billion of principal of convertible notes outstanding, which are comprised of our original notes with a principal of $1.275 billion and our exchange notes with a principal of $450.0 million. the convertible notes are recorded net of the unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of our original notes and exchange notes as of september 24, 2011 was approximately $1.20 billion and $468.7 million, respectively. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the united states as well as manufacturing facilities in germany, costa rica, canada and china. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the euro and u.s. dollar. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses denominated in euros are positively affected when the united states dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the united states dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net foreign exchange losses of $0.7 million, $1.1 million and $2.3 million, respectively.risk factors 20 risk factors below. reimbursement in the u.s., the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, known as cms, establishes policies for the coverage and reimbursement of medicare and medicaid beneficiaries. under current cms policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for bone density assessment, endometrial ablations, mammography and other imaging, diagnostic tests and surgical procedures performed using our products. coverage policies for medicare patients may vary by regional medicare carrier in the absence of a national coverage determination and reimbursement rates for procedures will vary based on the geographic price index. coverage and reimbursement for patients with private insurance is dependent on the individual private payer decisions and may not follow the policies and rates established by cms for medicare. moreover, private insurance carriers may choose not to follow the cms reimbursement policies. the use of our products outside the u.s. is similarly affected by reimbursement policies adopted by foreign regulatory authorities and insurance carriers. significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the sales of those products. on an annual basis, cms publishes reimbursement rates for laboratory services, physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. cms published final 2013 rates on november 1, 2012 the cms reimbursement rates for 2013 included a general reduction of 27% in the sustainable growth rate, or sgr, factor. this factor is used by cms in a formula to determine doctor reimbursements and, if implemented, would correspondingly affect the reimbursement for the use of our products. this reduction will go into effect january 1, 2013 unless legislation is passed by congress. currently, there is not an established current procedural terminology, or cpt, code, reimbursement rate or official coverage for the use of 3d mammography (breast tomosynthesis) as it was only approved by the fda in february 2011 in connection with our pma application for our dimensions system. we are working with governmental authorities, professional societies, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis. however, we can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful. failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3d mammography would adversely affect sales of our dimensions 3d systems. political, economic and regulatory influences, including those envisioned by the adoption in march 2010 of u.s. healthcare reform, may subject the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. we anticipate that the federal government and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with the ultimate objective of reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could, among other things, limit the use of our products and treatments and further reduce reimbursement available for such use. these reforms or cost containment measures, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects. employees as of september 29, 2012, we had approximately 6,157 full-time employees, including 1,850 in manufacturing operations, 857 in research and development, 2,750 in marketing, sales and support services, and 700 in finance and administration. the non-management employees of our hitec-imaging subsidiary are represented by a union. hitec-imaging 191 non-management german employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements negotiated on a national and regional basis between unternehmens-verband s&uuml;d&ocirc;stliches westfalen e.v., the employers association of north rhine-westphalia, and the german metal workers union, industriegewerkschaft metall. in addition, hitec-imaging german employees are represented by a works council, a betriebsrat, with respect to various shop agreements for social matters and working conditions. we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. except as described herein, none of our other employees are represented by a union. 19 table of contents seasonality worldwide sales, including u.s. sales, do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer purchases of our gyn surgical products have been historically less in the second fiscal quarter of the year as compared to other quarters. we expect continuing fluctuations in our manufacture and shipment of blood screening products and instruments to novartis, which vary each period based on novartis inventory levels and supply chain needs. our respiratory infectious disease product line is also subject to significant seasonal and year-over-year fluctuations. in addition, the summer months, which occur during our fiscal fourth quarter, typically have had lower order rates internationally for most of our products. item 1a. risk factors this report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect us. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. the cautionary statements made under the heading special note regarding forward-looking statements and elsewhere in this report are intended to be applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they may appear in this report. we urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. risks relating to our business the continuing worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects. market acceptance of our medical products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. the continuing uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and continuing weak worldwide macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of actual or potential debt default by certain european countries, have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. additionally, constrictions in world credit markets have caused and may continue to cause our customers to experience increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products. economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums and co-payments may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. if the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted. sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent upon the coverage and reimbursement decisions made by third-party payors. the failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our medical products and the treatments facilitated by our products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. market acceptance of our products and treatments has and will continue to depend upon our customers ability to obtain an appropriate level of coverage for, and reimbursement from third-party payors for, these products and treatments. in the u.s., cms establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for healthcare providers treating medicare and medicaid beneficiaries. under current cms policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for our products and treatments. coverage policies for medicare patients may vary by regional medicare carriers in the absence of a national coverage determination and reimbursement rates for treatments may vary based on the geographic price index. coverage and reimbursement policies and rates applicable to patients with private insurance are dependent upon individual private payor decisions which may not follow the policies and rates established by cms. the use of our products and treatments outside the united states is similarly affected by coverage and reimbursement policies adopted by foreign governments and private insurance carriers. significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the sales of those products. on an annual basis, cms publishes reimbursement rates for laboratory services, physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments. cms published final 2013 rates on november 1, 2012 the cms reimbursement rates for 2013 included a general reduction of 27% in the sgr factor. this factor is used by cms in a formula to determine doctor reimbursements and, if implemented, would correspondingly affect the reimbursement for the use of our products. this reduction will go into effect in january 1, 2013 unless legislation is passed by congress. currently, there is not an established cpt code, reimbursement rate or official coverage for the use of 3d mammography (breast tomosynthesis) as it was only approved by the fda in february 2011 in connection with our pma application for our 20 table of contents dimensions system. we are working with governmental authorities, professional societies, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3d mammography. however, we can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful. failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis would adversely affect sales of our dimensions 3d systems. the adoption of healthcare reform in the united states and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of these reforms could harm our business and prospects. the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. the effect of the implementation of the patient protection and affordable care act and health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010, enacted into law in the u.s. in march 2010, on our business is uncertain. among other things, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on u.s. sales of certain medical devices beginning january 1, 2013. we expect that this excise tax will apply to the majority, if not all, of our products sold in the u.s. u.s. net product sales represent, and will likely continue to represent a substantial majority of our net revenues. our u.s. product sales represented 73% and 76% of our net product sales for the years ended september 29, 2012 and september 24, 2011, respectively. the law also includes new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent new reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufactures and physicians and hospitals. we expect compliance with the new healthcare legislation, including with these new reporting requirements and the new excise tax, to impose significant additional administrative and financial burdens on us. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. the healthcare reform legislation and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. in addition, the excise tax will increase our costs of doing business. the impact of this healthcare reform legislation and these proposals could harm our business and prospects, results of operations and/or financial condition. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products and treatments; reduce reimbursement available for such use; further tax the sale or use of our products; adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted; and further increase the administrative and financial burden of compliance. these reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could also have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects. changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may cause increased compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by healthcare providers and insurers could result in decreased use of our products. for example, in november 2012, the american congress of obstetrics and gynecologists, known as the acog, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released by acog in november 2009 and guidelines released in march 2012 by the u.s. preventative services task force, known as the uspstf, and the american cancer society. 21 table of contents our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and treatments and enhance our existing products and treatments. we are devoting significant resources to our continuing research and development programs which are designed to develop new products and treatments and to enhance and improve our existing products and treatments. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays in development, clinical trials or the approval or clearance process by the fda or other applicable regulatory authority; access to capital; budget overruns; third-party intellectual property; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for products or 510(k) clearance. given the uncertainties inherent with product development, introduction, and enhancement our efforts may not be completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget, if at all, could harm our business and prospects. if we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed. in particular, any failure by us to maintain our blood screening collaboration with novartis could have a material adverse effect on our business. gen-probe has relied, to a significant extent, on corporate collaborators for funding the development of and marketing for certain of its products. in addition, we expect to rely on our corporate collaborators for the commercialization of certain products. if any of our corporate collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. we cannot control the amount and timing of resources our corporate collaborators devote to our programs or potential products. the continuation of any of these collaboration agreements depends upon their periodic renewal by us and our collaborators. for example, in january 2009 gen-probe extended the term of its blood screening collaboration with novartis to june 30, 2025, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances specified in the collaboration agreement. the collaboration was previously scheduled to expire by its terms in 2013. if any of our current collaboration agreements are terminated, or if we are unable to renew those collaborations on acceptable terms, we may be required to devote additional internal resources to product development or marketing or to terminate some development programs or seek alternative corporate collaborations. we may not be able to negotiate additional corporate collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all, and these collaborations may not be successful. in addition, in the event of a dispute under our current or any future collaboration agreements, such as our agreements with novartis, court or arbitrator may not rule in our favor and our rights or obligations under an agreement subject to a dispute may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse effect on our business or operating results. if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory and quality requirements, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. the manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities. these difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products and may result in increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. in addition, production of these newer products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise, which we may be unable to develop. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. 22 table of contents in determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on historical experience, inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we and our distributors require, which could harm our business and results of operations. blood screening and clinical diagnostic products are regulated by the fda as well as other foreign medical regulatory bodies. in some cases, such as in the united states and the eu, certain products may also require individual lot release testing. maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the fda, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. in addition, our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the fda and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to fda requirements relating to the quality system regulation. we or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet applicable specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. our existing and newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet applicable specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recalls or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving fda clearance or approval, which could harm our business and prospects. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could harm the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. in the past, gen-probe voluntarily recalled products, which, in each case, required it to identify a problem and correct it. in may 2011, gen-probe voluntarily recalled certain elucigene test kits for the detection of genetic mutations associated with cystic fibrosis because of issues gen-probe identified during quality control stability testing. all affected customers and appropriate regulatory authorities were advised of the voluntary recall and gen-probe made a substitute product available. the affected product is ce marked, but is not cleared by the fda and is not available for sale in the united states. in addition, in may 2011 gen-probe initiated a second voluntary recall of certain elucigene branded tests in canada upon determination that such products were not properly registered with health canada. in april 2012, gen-probe voluntarily recalled certain lots of lifecodes pak (platelet antibody) products after determining that the negative controls in the assays were increasing signals over time, leading to the potential for decreased product performance. our products may be subject to a future government-mandated recall or further voluntary recalls, and any such recalls could divert managerial and financial resources, be more difficult and costly to correct, result in the suspension of sales of certain of our products and/or harm our reputation and financial results. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we and our contract manufacturers manufacture our products at a relatively limited number of different facilities located throughout the world. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. because some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the united states, including in germany, canada, costa rica, the united kingdom and china, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products and treatments or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. our products and treatments are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. our delay or inability to obtain any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. in addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. 23 table of contents medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without 510(k) clearance or premarket approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. in august 2010, the fda issued two reports outlining potential changes to the 510(k) regulatory process. in addition, in january 2011, the fda issued an implementation plan containing 25 specific actions to be implemented in 2011 relating to the 510(k) regulatory process and associated administrative matters. the fda also deferred action on several other initiatives, including the creation of a new class of devices that would be subject to heightened review processes, until the institute of medicine released a related report on the 510(k) regulatory process in july 2011. the fda is reviewing the institute of medicine report as well as public input to determine what, if any, recommendations the fda will adopt with respect to the 510(k) regulatory process. many of the actions proposed by the fda could result in significant changes to the 510(k) regulatory process, which would likely complicate the process of obtaining clearance for products by the fda. in september 2012, the european commission proposed new regulations for medical devices. the proposed new regulations cover in one regulation devices that are currently the subject of two separate directives, the active implantable medical devices directive and the medical devices directive. the adoption of these regulations may impact our international operations through a broadened scope of medical device oversight and/or regulatory reach. compliance with the new european commission regulations, if and when adopted, may impose additional administrative and financial burdens on us. the markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies; the perceptions of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments; recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments our business and prospects could be harmed. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system may not develop as expected. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products may not continue to develop as expected. there is a significant installed base of conventional digital and screen-film mammography products in hospitals and radiological practices. the use of our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system in many cases would require these potential customers to either modify or replace their existing x-ray imaging equipment. as our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis systems are generally more 24 table of contents expensive than conventional mammography products, we believe that a major factor in the market acceptance of dimensions 3d tomosynthesis systems has been and will continue to be based upon the benefits of tomosynthesis as compared to less expensive technologies. moreover, as a new technology, there is currently limited, if any, reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis. we believe that our ability to continue to gain market acceptance of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and follow-on products depends on our ability to demonstrate the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and to secure reimbursement to support the use of 3d tomosynthesis. we are seeking to work with healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in connection with our efforts to promote, and to secure reimbursement for, the use of 3d tomosynthesis. however, we can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products have and will continue to be affected by published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of tomosynthesis, as well as decisions relating to the reimbursement of healthcare providers for the use of the system. the publication of an adverse study, or an adverse decision relating to the reimbursement of the use of tomosynthesis, would likely significantly impair the adoption of this technology and harm our business. sales of our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system may also be adversely affected by increased competition. several companies, including siemens, giotto, philips and planmed, have recently introduced 3d tomosynthesis systems in certain foreign countries. we also are aware that other companies, several of which have substantially greater resources than we have, such as ge and siemens, are developing 3d tomosynthesis systems for approval in the u.s. because the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products are relatively new, it is likely that our evaluation of the potential markets for these products will materially vary with time. our business may be harmed by the acquisition of gen-probe, our other prior acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. we have acquired a number of businesses, technologies, product lines and products, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. we may not be able to identify and successfully complete acquisition transactions. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired company. further, the long-term success of our acquisitions and any additional acquisitions we may complete in the future will depend upon our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our business. we may fail to realize anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully oversee international sales efforts and inability to prevent fcpa violations; failure to successfully obtain appropriate regulatory approval or clearance for products under development; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; potential difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the sec; and potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition of such companies, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; 25 table of contents an acquisition may result in future impairment charges related to a decline in the fair value of the acquired business as compared to the price we paid for such acquisition; an acquisition may involve restructuring operations or reductions in workforce which may result in substantial charges to our operations; our current and prospective customers and suppliers may experience uncertainty associated with an acquisition, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, including as a result of pending and future shareholder lawsuits relating to acquisitions or exercise by shareholders of their statutory appraisal rights, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; an acquisition may involve significant deferred or contingent payments that may adversely affect our future liquidity or capital resources; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax decisions and/or changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from combining acquired businesses could harm our business and prospects. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. we will incur significant acquisition-related costs in connection with the acquisition of gen-probe. we have incurred and expect to incur additional significant costs associated with our acquisition of gen-probe and combining the operations of the two companies. the substantial majority of the expenses resulting from the acquisition were comprised of transaction costs related to investment banker fees and other professional services as well as systems consolidation costs and business integration and employment-related costs, including costs for severance, retention and other restructuring activities. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies businesses. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. our business may be harmed by the contingent earn out obligations we incurred in connection with our acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. in connection with certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred the obligation to make contingent earn out payments tied to performance criteria, principally revenue growth of the acquired businesses over a specified period. we also expect that acquisitions we may complete in the future may contain contingent earn out payments, and these payments could be significant. in certain circumstances, such as a change of control, a portion of these obligations may be accelerated. in addition, contractual provisions relating to these contingent earn out obligations may include covenants to operate the acquired businesses in a manner that may not otherwise be most advantageous to us. these provisions may also result in the risk of litigation relating to the calculation of the amount due or our operation of the acquired business. such litigation could be expensive and divert management attention and resources. our obligation to make contingent payments may also result in significant operating expenses. depending upon the particular facts and circumstances giving rise to the payment and our previous estimates, all or a portion of these payments may be required to be expensed by us when accrued. for example, our contingent earn out obligations payable in connection with the tct and healthcome acquisitions will be fully expensed as accrued because our obligation to make these payments is conditioned on the continued employment of certain key employees of tct and healthcome. we can give no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to pay our contingent obligations when due, or that such obligations, including the associated covenants relating to the operation of the acquired business, will not otherwise adversely affect our business, liquidity, capital resources or results of operations. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several years. to address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our growth, including: expanding our product offerings; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; 26 table of contents strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; acquiring technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services; implementing targeted customer initiatives; and supporting cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of the breadth of our product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the growth of our business. consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could harm our business and prospects. the cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals and clinical laboratories. this consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition and continue to exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of diagnostics products. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest united states laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. for example, our patented tma technology is based on technology we licensed from stanford university. in addition, we have acquired exclusive worldwide diagnostic rights to the pca3 gene from diagnocure, inc. we anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. if our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate the technology. similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license. our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. in addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our nat diagnostic assays may be economically viable. if we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. our products and manufacturing processes will require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. we may need to obtain additional intellectual property rights in order to commercialize our products. we may be unable to obtain such rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, and copyrights to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. the pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that do issue will be challenged or invalidated. the patents that we own or license could also be subject to interference proceedings or similar disputes over the priority of the inventions, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. in addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve, particularly in biotechnology. as a result, patents might not issue from certain of our patent applications or from applications licensed to us. 27 table of contents we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. the rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united states are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. even if our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. we are and have been involved in patent litigation, and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. we are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations, including our operations in china. any of these risks or expenses could harm our operating results. these risks and expenses include: difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; governmental currency controls; multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements, international trade regulations and the fcpa); reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; the inability to effectively obtain or enforce intellectual property rights and otherwise protect against clone or knock off products; and the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in china and other foreign countries. 28 table of contents we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. for example, in our diagnostics business we are dependent on novartis to distribute the blood screening products we manufacture. commercial blood screening product sales to novartis accounted for 36% of gen-probe total product sales of $298.0 million for the first six months of gen-probe fiscal 2012 and 35% of gen-probe total product sales of $562.6 million for gen-probe fiscal 2011. in january 2009, gen-probe extended the term of its blood screening collaboration with novartis to june 30, 2025, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances specified in the collaboration agreement. if our relationship with novartis or any of our other strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. if any of our distribution or marketing agreements are terminated, particularly our collaboration agreement with novartis, or if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. we may not be able to enter into new distribution or marketing agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all. if we fail to enter into acceptable distribution or marketing agreements or fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. we may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities outside the united states in canada, china, costa rica, england and germany, and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollar. historically, a majority of our sales of capital equipment to international dealers have been denominated in u.s. dollars; however, in the second half of fiscal 2010 we began to invoice more of our european sales in the euro. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. in the last few years we have not hedged foreign currency exposures, but we may in the future hedge foreign currency denominated sales. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. this reliance could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components or subassemblies for our products. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified nat diagnostic assays, pursuant to a fixed-price contract, is roche molecular biochemicals. we have a supply and purchase agreement for oligonucleotides for hpv with roche molecular systems. each of these entities is an affiliate of roche diagnostics gmbh, which is one of our primary competitors in molecular diagnostics. we have only one third-party manufacturer for each of our molecular diagnostics instrument product lines, which exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. we have one third-party manufacturer for each of our molecular diagnostics instrument product lines. kmc systems, inc., or kmc systems, is the only manufacturer of the tigris instrument; stratec biomedical systems ag, or stratec, is the only manufacturer of the panther instrument; and tecan group ltd., or tecan, is the only manufacturer of the cervista high throughput automation system. we are dependent on these third-party manufacturers, and this dependence exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. 29 table of contents we have no firm long-term commitments from kmc systems, stratec, tecan or any of our other contract manufacturers to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. if kmc systems, stratec, tecan or any of our other third-party manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with products in sufficient quantities, then instrument shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. further, because we place orders with our manufacturers based on forecasts of expected demand for our instruments, if we inaccurately forecast demand we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity or adequate quantities of components to meet our customers delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. we may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers to replace existing suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. we may not be able to find contract manufacturers that meet our needs, and even if we do, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. if we are required or elect to change contract manufacturers, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. we may experience unexpected problems and expenses associated with our planned consolidation of operations and facilities that could materially harm our business and prospects. we continually review our operations and facilities in an effort to reduce costs and increase efficiencies and currently plan to consolidate several of our operations and facilities, including: the consolidation of our selenium panel coating production line, currently located in germany, into our digital detector manufacturing facility in newark, delaware; the consolidation of our breast biopsy operations, including manufacturing, research and development and sales support, currently located in indianapolis, indiana, into our costa rica manufacturing facility and our headquarters facilities in massachusetts; and the consolidation of our madison, wisconsin molecular diagnostics operations into our gen-probe facilities in san diego, california. we expect these consolidations to be completed over various periods of time through calendar 2014. uncertainty is inherent within the consolidation process, and unforeseen circumstances, costs and expenses could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt operations, including the timely delivery of products and service to customers, and impact product quality. in addition, we may fail to retain key employees who possess specific knowledge or expertise and who we are depending upon for the timely and successful transition, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of skilled workers at the new locations to handle the additional production and other demands, and the relocation may absorb significant management and key employee attention and resources. if any of these risks materialize, our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected. we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. some of our competitors are large companies that may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: significantly greater name recognition; larger or more established distribution networks; additional product lines, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; higher levels of automation and more substantial installed bases of such equipment; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and financial capabilities; and greater financial resources allowing them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce our gross margins. other companies may develop products that are superior to or less expensive, or both, than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introductions of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. 30 table of contents the current environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, together with current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures, may put additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed. because gen-probe has historically depended on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce our revenues. historically, a limited number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of gen-probe product sales, and gen-probe does not have any long-term commitments with these customers, other than pursuant to its collaboration agreement with novartis. product sales from gen-probe blood screening collaboration with novartis accounted for 36% of its total product sales of $298.0 million for the first six months of gen-probe fiscal 2012 and 35% of its total product sales of $562.6 million for gen-probe fiscal 2011. gen-probe blood screening collaboration with novartis is largely dependent on two significant customers in the united states, the american red cross and creative testing solutions, although gen-probe does not receive any revenues directly from those entities. novartis was gen-probe only customer that accounted for greater than 10% of its total revenues during the first six months of its fiscal 2012 and 2011. we anticipate that our operating results will continue to depend, to a significant extent, upon revenues from a small number of customers. the loss of any of our key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to those customers, could significantly reduce our revenues. our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. these trends will likely continue into the foreseeable future. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasingly challenging customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. we will likely continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may reduce our profitability. historically, we have incurred significant costs in connection with the development and improvement of our products and technologies. we expect that research and development expenditures will remain high as we seek to expand our product offerings and continue to develop and improve products and technologies. as a result, we will need to continue to generate significant revenues to maintain current levels of profitability. we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to maintain current levels of profitability in the future. our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products and treatments; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell and markets we serve; regulatory approval of products; 31 table of contents the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to as u.s. gaap; asset impairments; contingent consideration charges; restructuring and consolidation charges; and seasonality of sales of certain of our products. customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. recent changes to reclassify full-field digital mammography to permit 510(k) clearance could increase competition for our digital mammography products. the fda has changed the classification of 2d digital mammography systems from class iii to class ii. as a result, these 2d digital mammography systems will require a 510(k) submission rather than a pma, which will make it easier for other mammography vendors to gain approval of such systems in the united states. as a result, we anticipate that competition in the digital mammography market will intensify as more companies and products enter this market. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the medicare/medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the fcpa, which prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. in many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the fcpa. while we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is constantly evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions. new regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. on august 22, 2012, the sec adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. the new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by may 31, 2014, will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country. the new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. in addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. in addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. 32 table of contents security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems and, if successful, misappropriate personal or confidential business information. in addition, an associate, contractor, or other third-party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. any such compromise of our data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to transact business with us, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product competitive position in the market. the sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, inaccurate test results or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. we may incur losses in excess of our insurance coverage. our insurance coverage includes product liability, property, fire, terrorism and business interruption policies. our insurance coverage contains policy limits, specifications and exclusions. we believe that our insurance coverage is consistent with general practices within our industry. nonetheless, we may incur losses of a type for which we are not covered by insurance or which exceed the limits of liability of our insurance policies. in that event, we could experience a significant loss which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our future success depends on the continued services of key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. 33 table of contents our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business and prospects. we have entered into alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships. alliances with certain partners or companies could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for alliances or joint ventures; assure that any alliance or joint venture candidate will provide us with the support we anticipated; successfully negotiate an alliance or joint venture on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. furthermore, any alliance or joint venture may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous alliance or joint venture, failing to manage an alliance or joint venture effectively, or failing to comply with the obligations associated with an alliance or joint venture, could harm our business and prospects. an adverse change in the projected cash flows from our business units or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic uncertainty, could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. at least annually, we review the carrying value of our goodwill, and for other long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present, to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. in addition, the deterioration of a company market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. we assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and in evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. as a result of this assessment, we recorded significant impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets in fiscal 2009 and 2010. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill for our reporting units, and recorded a $5.8 million goodwill impairment charge for our mammosite reporting unit. all other reporting units passed step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. although we use reasonable methodologies for developing assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic uncertainty could negatively affect our anticipated future cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each reporting unit, to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test in fiscal 2013. the acquisition of gen-probe is expected to have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock following the acquisition. the acquisition of gen-probe is expected to have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap primarily due to the amortization of the intangible assets in connection with the acquisition. these expectations are based on preliminary estimates, which may materially change as a result of the completion of the allocation of the purchase price for the acquisition. we could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition. any of these factors could cause further dilution to our earnings per share or cause a decrease in the price of our common stock. charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the acquisition of gen-probe. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have accounted for the acquisition using the purchase method of accounting, resulting in charges to our earnings that could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. under the purchase method of accounting, we allocated the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from gen-probe based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date, and recorded any excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. for certain tangible and intangible assets, recording their fair values as of the acquisition date results in incurring significant additional depreciation and/or amortization expense that exceeds the combined amounts recorded by us and gen-probe prior to the acquisition. this increased expense is recorded over the estimated useful lives of the underlying assets. in addition, to the extent the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets post-acquisition were to become impaired, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of those assets. 34 table of contents our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. we are subject to income taxes and non-income based taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we take certain income tax return positions for which we provide additional taxes if it is more-likely-than-not that they will not withstand a tax authority challenge. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly evaluate the audits likely outcomes in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and tax reserves. however, we cannot give assurance that we will accurately predict the audits outcomes, which could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than prior years due to numerous factors, including a change in our geographic profitability mix and changes in tax laws. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have a material impact on our business and operating results. changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. u.s. law makers are considering several u.s. corporate tax reform proposals including those that may reduce or eliminate u.s. income tax deferral on unrepatriated foreign earnings and eliminate tax incentives such as the domestic manufacturing deduction in exchange for a lower u.s. statutory tax rate. risks relating to our indebtedness we incurred significant indebtedness in order to finance the acquisition of gen-probe, which will limit our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. as of september 29, 2012, following the acquisition of gen-probe, we had approximately $5.2 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness. we also have other contractual obligations and deferred tax liabilities. this significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. in addition, the terms of our financing obligations require us to meet certain financial covenants that are customary with these types of credit facilities, which are described in note 5 borrowings and credit arrangements in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 15 of this annual report. if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we could default under the credit facilities, which could cause us to be unable to borrow additional amounts under the credit facilities and may result in the acceleration of the maturity of our outstanding indebtedness under the facilities. if the maturities were accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment, and if we were unable to borrow further under the facilities, we may not be able to make investments in our business to support our strategy or we may end up in bankruptcy proceedings, or other processes, in which our business would be negatively impacted. in addition, our shareholders could be adversely impacted as shareholder value could decrease to a point of limited return. each scenario would result in significant negative implications to our liquidity and results of operations. in addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to: incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions or restricted payments; make certain investments; agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries; sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with our affiliates; create liens; 35 table of contents designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. our new senior secured credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the new credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including the senior notes. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we can give no assurance that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. as of september 29, 2012, approximately $2.5 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represents the outstanding principal under our tranche a term loan facility and our tranche b term loan facility, was subject to floating interest rates. we currently have no hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates. risks relating to our common stock future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our convertible notes, or any common stock that note holders receive upon conversion of their notes. 36 table of contents future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock for future sale could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. in addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options or for other reasons. provisions in our charter, bylaws, indebtedness and stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control of us. our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the worldwide economy; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future, and; the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. the price of our common stock also may be adversely affected by the amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, cost-method equity investments, insurance contracts and related nonqualified deferred compensation plan liability, accounts payable and debt obligations. except for our outstanding convertible notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. as of september 29, 2012, we have $1.725 billion of principal of convertible notes outstanding, which are comprised of our 2007 notes with a principal of $775.0 million, our 2010 notes with a principal of $450.0 million, and our 2012 notes with a principal of $500.0 million. the convertible notes are recorded net of the unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of our 2007 notes, 2010 notes and 2012 notes as of september 29, 2012 was approximately $771.6 million, $505.6 million and $490.7 million, respectively. amounts outstanding under our credit agreement aggregating $2.5 billion aggregate principal are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value. in addition, based on the recent issuance of our senior notes, we believe their carrying amount approximates fair value. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowing outstanding under our convertible notes, senior notes and credit agreement. the convertible notes and senior notes have fixed interest rates. borrowings under our credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, initially, with respect to all loans made under term loan a (i) at the base rate plus 2.00% per annum, or (ii) at the adjusted eurodollar rate (i.e., the libor rate) plus 3.00%, and with respect to loans made under term loan b: (i) at the base rate, with a floor of 2.00%, plus 2.50%, or (ii) at the adjusted eurodollar rate, with a floor of 1.00% plus 3.50%. as of september 29, 2012, there was $2.5 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the credit agreement comprised of $1.0 billion under term loan a and $1.5 billion under term loan b. since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. a 10% adverse movement (increase in libor rate) would increase annual interest expense by less than $1.0 million due to the low current interest rate environment and the floor on our term loan b. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 77 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the united states as well as manufacturing facilities in costa rica, germany, canada and china. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the euro and u.s. dollar. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses, denominated in euros, are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $0.8 million, $(0.7) million and $(1.1) million, respectively.risk factors 26 risk factors this report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect us. factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. the cautionary statements made under the heading special note regarding forward-looking statements and elsewhere in this report are intended to be applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they may appear in this report. we urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. risks relating to our business the continuing worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects. market acceptance of our medical products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patients medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. the continuing uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and continuing weak worldwide macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of actual or potential debt default by certain european countries, have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums and co-payments may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. job losses or slow improvement in the unemployment rate in the u.s. as a result of current macroeconomic conditions may result in a smaller percentage of our patients being covered by an employer health group and a larger percentage being covered by lower paying medicare and medicaid programs. furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. if the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted. 26 table of contents sales and market acceptance of our products is dependent upon the coverage and reimbursement decisions made by third-party payors. the failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. sales and market acceptance of our medical products and the treatments facilitated by our products in the united states and other countries is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. market acceptance of our products and treatments has and will continue to depend upon our customers ability to obtain an appropriate level of coverage for, and reimbursement from third-party payors for, these products and treatments. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures are being adopted in the united states and in many foreign countries. these reforms and measures, including those envisioned by the adoption in 2010 of united states healthcare reform, could among other things limit the use of our products and treatments and further reduce reimbursement available for such use. in addition, the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect could have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the sales of those products. we also expect that pricing of medical products and services will remain under pressure as alternative payment models such as bundling, value-based purchasing and accountable care organizations begin to take shape in the united states. currently, there is not an established cpt code, reimbursement rate or official coverage for the use of 3d mammography (breast tomosynthesis). we are working with governmental authorities, professional societies, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3d mammography. however, we can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful. failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis would adversely affect sales of our dimensions 3d systems. the adoption of healthcare reform in the united states and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of these reforms could harm our business and prospects. the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, trends toward managed care, cuts in medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. the effect of the implementation of the ppaca on our business is uncertain. among other things, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on u.s. sales of certain medical devices which became effective on january 1, 2013. we expect that this excise tax will continue to apply to the majority, if not all, of our products sold in the u.s. in which net product sales represent, and will likely continue to represent a substantial majority of our net revenues. in addition, the judgments we make regarding which of our products are subject to the excise tax based on our interpretations of this act and irs regulations and the underlying factors used to calculate the amount of tax due on the sale of such products could differ from the irs, resulting in additional charges to our results of operations. our u.s. product sales represented 74% and 73% of our net product sales for the years ended september 28, 2013 and september 29, 2012, respectively. since the effective date of the medical device excise tax through september 28, 2013, the company has incurred $15.7 million of excise tax expense related to the domestic sales of its medical device products. the law also includes new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent new reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and hospitals. we expect compliance with the new healthcare legislation, including with these new reporting requirements and the new excise tax, to impose significant additional administrative and financial burdens on us. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. the healthcare reform 27 table of contents legislation and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. these reforms include a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models. in addition, the excise tax will increase our costs of doing business. the impact of this healthcare reform legislation, and practices including price regulation, competitive pricing, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed care arrangements could harm our business and prospects, results of operations and/or financial condition. healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the united states and in many foreign countries could: limit the use of our products and treatments; reduce reimbursement available for such use; further tax the sale or use of our products; adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted; and further increase the administrative and financial burden of compliance. these reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could also have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated industry. as a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; changes in the fda and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; changes in fda and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. we anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may cause increased compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations may reduce the use of our products. professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by healthcare providers and insurers could result in 28 table of contents decreased use of our products. for example, in november 2012, the american congress of obstetrics and gynecologists, known as the acog, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in march 2012 by the u.s. preventative services task force, known as the uspstf, and the american cancer society. we believe that these recommendations and guidelines may have contributed to increased screeing intervals for cervical cancer, which we believe has and may continue to adversely affect our thinprep revenues. our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and treatments and enhance our existing products and treatments. we are devoting significant resources to our continuing research and development programs which are designed to develop new products and treatments and to enhance and improve our existing products and treatments. the successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: unanticipated delays in development, clinical trials or the approval or clearance process by the fda or other applicable regulatory authority; access to capital; budget overruns; third-party intellectual property; technical problems; and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the fda in connection with pre-market approval applications for products or 510(k) clearance. given the uncertainties inherent with product development, introduction, and enhancement our efforts may not be completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget, if at all, could harm our business and prospects. our blood screening business, which we conduct through our collaboration agreement with novartis, could be adversely affected by the recently announced proposed sale by novartis of its blood screening business to grifols. product sales from our blood screening collaboration with novartis accounted for 16.6% of our diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2013. under that collaboration our blood screening products have been marketed and sold by novartis. on november 11, 2013, novartis announced that it is selling its blood screening business to grifols. grifols had previously been a customer of our collaboration with novartis. as announced, the transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of calendar 2014. upon the consummation of the acquisition, grifols will replace novartis as our blood screening collaborator. novartis has significantly greater resources and worldwide name recognition than grifols. a disruption of our blood screening business, including a loss of customers as a result of the announcement or transfer of novartis blood screening business to grifols, grifols failure to market and sell our blood screening products successfully, or our and grifols failure to otherwise manage our mutual collaboration successfully could adversely affect our diagnostics segment revenues and profitability. 29 table of contents if we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed. in particular, any failure by us to successfully maintain our blood screening collaboration could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have historically entered into various corporate collaborations, including alliances and joint ventures, with certain partners or companies that could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. moreover, we may not be able to: identify appropriate candidates for corporate collaborations; assure that any collaboration candidate will provide us with the support we anticipated; successfully negotiate a collaboration on terms that are advantageous to us; or successfully manage any collaboration. gen-probe has relied, to a significant extent, on corporate collaborators for funding the development of and marketing for certain of its products. in addition, we expect to rely on our corporate collaborators for the commercialization of certain products. if any of our corporate collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. we cannot control the amount and timing of resources our corporate collaborators devote to our programs or potential products. the continuation of any of these collaboration agreements depends upon their periodic renewal by us and our collaborators. for example, in january 2009, gen-probe extended the term of its blood screening collaboration with novartis to june 30, 2025, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances specified in the collaboration agreement. the collaboration was previously scheduled to expire by its terms in 2013. most recently, on november 11, 2013, novartis announced that it was selling its blood screening business to grifols. although grifols had previously been a customer of our collaboration with novartis, we have not previously collaborated with grifols and we cannot assure that we and grifols will be able to manage or continue a successful blood screening collaboration. if any of our current collaboration agreements are terminated, or if we are unable to renew those collaborations on acceptable terms, we may be required to devote additional internal resources to product development or marketing or to terminate some development programs or seek alternative corporate collaborations. in addition, in the event of a dispute under our current or any future collaboration agreements, such as our collaboration agreement with novartis, which will be assigned to grifols upon completion of novartis proposed sale of its blood screening business to grifols, a court or arbitrator may not rule in our favor and our rights or obligations under an agreement subject to a dispute may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse effect on our business or operating results. any corporate collaboration may divert management time and resources. entering into a disadvantageous corporate collaboration, failing to manage a collaboration effectively, or failing to comply with the obligations associated with a collaboration, could harm our business and prospects. if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory and quality requirements, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. the manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. we have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities. these difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products and may result in increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. in addition, 30 table of contents production of these newer products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise, which we may be unable to develop. our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects. in determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on historical experience, inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we and our distributors require, which could harm our business and results of operations. blood screening, medical diagnostic and surgical device products are regulated by the fda as well as other foreign medical regulatory bodies. in some cases, such as in the united states and the eu, certain products may also require individual lot release testing. maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the fda, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. in addition, our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the fda and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to fda requirements relating to the quality system regulation and good manufacturing practices. we or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet applicable specifications. we are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. our existing and newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. in addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. if, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet applicable specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. in addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity, mandatory or voluntary recalls or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. our products may be subject to recalls even after receiving fda clearance or approval, which could harm our reputation, business and prospects. the fda and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. a government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. any recall could divert managerial and financial resources, be difficult and costly to correct, result in the suspension of sales of certain of our products, harm our reputation and the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects. interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business. we and our contract manufacturers manufacture our products at a relatively limited number of different facilities located throughout the world. an interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment 31 table of contents failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. because some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the united states, including in germany, canada, costa rica, the united kingdom and china, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described below. our inability to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products and treatments or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. our products and treatments are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. our inability to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, any necessary united states or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. in addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. medical devices cannot be marketed in the united states without 510(k) clearance or premarket approval by the fda. any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. if the fda requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. medical devices sold in the united states must also be manufactured in compliance with fda good manufacturing practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. moreover, medical devices are required to comply with fda regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. states may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. in august 2010, the fda issued two reports outlining potential changes to the 510(k) regulatory process. in addition, in january 2011, the fda issued an implementation plan containing 25 specific actions to be implemented in 2011 relating to the 510(k) regulatory process and associated administrative matters. the fda also deferred action on several other initiatives, including the creation of a new class of devices that would be subject to heightened review processes, until the institute of medicine released a related report on the 510(k) regulatory process in july 2011. the fda is reviewing the institute of medicine report as well as public input to determine what, if any, recommendations the fda will adopt with respect to the 510(k) regulatory process. many of the actions proposed by the fda could result in significant changes to the 510(k) regulatory process, which would likely complicate the process of obtaining product clearance from the fda. in september 2012, the european commission proposed new regulations for medical devices. the proposed new regulations cover in one regulation devices that are currently the subject of two separate directives, the active implantable medical devices directive and the medical devices directive. the adoption of these regulations may impact our international operations through a broadened scope of medical device oversight and/or regulatory reach. compliance with the new european commission regulations, if and when adopted, may impose additional administrative and financial burdens on us. 32 table of contents the markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected. the successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment; trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies; the perception of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments; recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers; the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and other technological developments. often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment. if we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments our business and prospects could be harmed. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products may not develop as expected. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products may not continue to develop as expected. there is a significant installed base of conventional digital and screen-film mammography products in hospitals and radiological practices. the use of our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system in many cases would require these potential customers to either modify or replace their existing x-ray imaging equipment. as our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis systems are generally more expensive than conventional mammography products, we believe that a major factor in the market acceptance of dimensions 3d tomosynthesis systems has been and will continue to be based upon the benefits of tomosynthesis as compared to less expensive technologies. moreover, as a new technology, there is currently limited, if any, reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis. we believe that our ability to continue to gain market acceptance of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and follow-on products depends on our ability to demonstrate the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and to secure reimbursement to support the use of 3d tomosynthesis. we are working with healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in connection with our efforts to promote, and to secure reimbursement for, the use of 3d tomosynthesis. however, we can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful. the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products have and will 33 table of contents continue to be affected by published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of tomosynthesis, as well as decisions relating to the reimbursement of healthcare providers for the use of the system. the publication of an adverse study, or an adverse decision relating to the reimbursement of the use of tomosynthesis, would likely significantly impair the adoption of this technology and harm our business. sales of our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system may also be adversely affected by increased competition. several companies, including siemens, i.m.s., fuji, and philips have recently introduced 3d tomosynthesis systems in certain foreign countries. we also are aware that other companies, several of which have substantially greater resources than we have, such as ge, siemens and fuji, are developing 3d tomosynthesis systems for approval in the u.s. because the markets for our dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system and related products are relatively new, it is likely that our evaluation of the potential markets for these products will materially vary with time. our business may be harmed by the acquisition of gen-probe, our other prior acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. we have acquired a number of businesses, technologies, product lines and products, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. we may not be able to identify and successfully complete acquisition transactions. any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired company. further, the long-term success of our acquisitions and any additional acquisitions we may complete in the future will depend upon our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the acquired businesses with our business. we may fail to realize anticipated benefits for a number of reasons, including the following: problems may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; failure to retain and motivate key employees; failure to successfully oversee international sales efforts and inability to prevent fcpa violations; failure to successfully obtain appropriate regulatory approval or clearance for products under development; failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; failure of customers to accept new products; failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively; failure to effectively enhance acquired technology and products or develop new products relating to the acquired businesses; potential difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; potential difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; potential difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the sec; and potential difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition of such 34 table of contents companies, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; we may not be able to achieve the expected synergies from an acquisition or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; an acquisition may result in future impairment charges related to a decline in the fair value of the acquired business as compared to the price we paid for such acquisition; an acquisition may involve restructuring operations or reductions in workforce which may result in substantial charges to our operations; our current and prospective customers and suppliers may experience uncertainty associated with an acquisition, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business; an acquisition may involve unexpected costs or liabilities, including as a result of pending and future shareholder lawsuits relating to acquisitions or exercise by shareholders of their statutory appraisal rights, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; an acquisition may involve significant deferred or contingent payments that may adversely affect our future liquidity or capital resources; and the acquired businesses may be adversely affected by future legislative, regulatory, or tax decisions and/or changes as well as other economic, business and/or competitive factors. our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from combining acquired businesses could harm our business and prospects. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, in connection with our company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure, we reduced our short term and long term revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our molecular diagnostics reporting unit, which is in our diagnostics segment. the molecular diagnostics reporting unit is primarily comprised of our aptima business acquired in the gen-probe acquisition in fiscal 2012 and the molecular diagnostics business acquired in the third wave acquisition in fiscal 2008. the updated forecast, which reflects recent pricing pressures, is now lower, and the current projections for revenue and profitability are lower than those expected at the time of the gen-probe acquisition. as such, the fair value of this reporting unit declined. as a result of performing step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the completion of a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the fair value of the implied goodwill, we recorded a $1.1 billion goodwill impairment charge. for further information of this charge, refer to note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in item 15 of this annual report. if we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. if we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. our business may be harmed by the contingent earn out obligations we incurred in connection with our acquisitions or acquisitions we may complete in the future. in connection with certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred the obligation to make contingent earn out payments tied to performance criteria, principally revenue growth of the acquired businesses over a specified period. we also expect that acquisitions we may complete in the future may contain contingent earn out 35 table of contents payments, and these payments could be significant. in certain circumstances, such as a change of control, a portion of these obligations may be accelerated. in addition, contractual provisions relating to these contingent earn out obligations may include covenants to operate the acquired businesses in a manner that may not otherwise be most advantageous to us. these provisions may also result in the risk of litigation relating to the calculation of the amount due or our operation of the acquired business. such litigation could be expensive and divert management attention and resources. our obligation to make contingent payments may also result in significant operating expenses. depending upon the particular facts and circumstances giving rise to the payment and our previous estimates, all or a portion of these payments may be required to be expensed by us when accrued. we can give no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to pay our contingent obligations when due, or that such obligations, including the associated covenants relating to the operation of the acquired business, will not otherwise adversely affect our business, liquidity, capital resources or results of operations. it may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for sustaining growth. some of the markets in which we compete have been flat or declining. for example, in fiscal 2013, we experienced declines in domestic sales of our thinprep and novasure systems, and worldwide sales of our 2d mammography systems. we attribute the decline in thinprep system sales to the increased time intervals between cervical cancer screenings as a result of recent screening recommendations, the decline in the sale of novasure systems to the continuing effect of unemployment and economic uncertainty and the increase in insurance deductibles and the availability of less expensive, although often less effective, alternative therapies, and the decline in 2d mammography sales to our introduction of the dimensions 3d tomosynthesis system. at the end of fiscal 2013, we also experienced a modest decline in prices for our molecular diagnostics products. we also continue to experience pressures resulting from ongong economic challenges and uncertainty resulting from health care reforms, reimbursement pressures and capital budget uncertainty. we expect such trends and pressures to continue in fiscal 2014. to offset these pressures, we are pursuing a number of strategies to sustain our business, including: continuing to aggressively place our molecular diagnostics instrumentation in laboratories, particular our panther system, to drive longer term growth from the use of those systems and the purchase of our assays; continuing to aggressively market and sell our dimenstions 3d tomosynthesis system and to seek incremental reimbursement for the use of 3d tomosynthesis; expanding our product offerings, particularly within our diagnostics segment; allocating research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; developing new applications for our technologies; strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets; implementing targeted customer initiatives; and supporting cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take advantage of the breadth of our product offerings. we may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the growth of our business. 36 table of contents consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could harm our business and prospects. the cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals and clinical laboratories. this consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition and continue to exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. in particular, we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the united states for a significant portion of our sales of diagnostics products. due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest united states laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories. our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. for example, our patented tma technology is based on technology we licensed from stanford university. in addition, we have acquired exclusive worldwide diagnostic rights to the pca3 gene from diagnocure, inc. we anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. if our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate the technology. similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license. additionally, the u.s. supreme court has issued decisions, the full impact of which is not yet known. for example, in march 2012 in mayo collaborative services, dba mayo medical laboratories, et al. v. prometheus laboratories, inc., the court held that several claims drawn to measuring drug metabolite levels from patient samples and correlating them to drug doses were not patentable subject matter. the decision appears to impact diagnostics patents that merely apply a law of nature via a series of routine steps and it has created uncertainty around the ability to patent certain biomarker-related method claims. additionally, in june 2013 in association for molecular pathology v. myriad genetics, inc., the court held that claims to isolated genomic dna are not patentable, but claims to complementary dna (cdna) molecules were held to be valid. the effect of the decision on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain and we may lose competitive advantages should the subject matter of an exclusive license be deemed non-statutory and we therefore fail to maintain exclusivity to such subject matter as a result. our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. in addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our nat diagnostic assays may be economically viable. if we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. 37 table of contents our products and manufacturing processes will require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. we may need to obtain additional intellectual property rights in order to commercialize our products. we may be unable to obtain such rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. we have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, and copyrights to protect our products and technology. despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. the pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. we do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that do issue will be challenged or invalidated. the patents that we own or license could also be subject to interference proceedings or similar disputes over the priority of the inventions, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. in addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve, particularly in biotechnology. as a result, patents might not issue from certain of our patent applications or from applications licensed to us. we have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our u.s. patents and patent applications. there is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the u.s. the rights provided by a patent are finite in time. over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the u.s. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology that our patents do not cover. in addition, because patent applications in the united states are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. even if our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. as a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. in the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. additionally, the effect of the prometheus laboratories and myriad genetics decisions on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain and these decisions could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. we are and have been involved in patent litigation, and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. in connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. there is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will 38 table of contents not be available on reasonable terms. alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. as a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. we are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations, including our operations in china. any of these risks or expenses could harm our operating results. these risks and expenses include: difficulties in developing staffing and simultaneously managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable; difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; possible adverse tax consequences; the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; governmental currency controls; multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements); operation in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; the inability to effectively obtain or enforce intellectual property rights and otherwise protect against clone or knock off products; and the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in china and other foreign countries. our global operations are required to comply with the fcpa, chinese anti-corruption and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and with u.s. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. if we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil and criminal sanctions. our china operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations. the regulatory environment in china is evolving, and officials in the chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. it is possible that the chinese government current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our china operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties. 39 table of contents we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. we rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. for example, in our diagnostics business we are dependent on novartis to distribute the blood screening products we manufacture. commercial blood screening product sales to novartis accounted for 16.6% of our diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2013. in january 2009, gen-probe extended the term of its blood screening collaboration with novartis to june 30, 2025, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances specified in the collaboration agreement. on november 11, 2013, novartis announced that it is selling its blood screening business to grifols. as announced, the transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of calendar 2014. upon the consummation of that transaction, grifols will replace novartis as our blood screening collaborator. if our blood screening relationship or any of our other strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. if any of our distribution or marketing agreements are terminated, particularly our blood screening collaboration agreement, or if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. we may not be able to enter into new distribution or marketing agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all. if we fail to enter into acceptable distribution or marketing agreements or fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. we may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. fluctuations in the exchange rates of european currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. we maintain sales and service offices outside the united states, have manufacturing facilities outside the united states in canada, china, costa rica, england and germany, and conduct business worldwide. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies, the euro or u.s. dollar. historically, a majority of our sales of capital equipment to international dealers have been denominated in u.s. dollars; however, in the second half of fiscal 2010 we began to invoice more of our european sales in the euro. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. in the last few years we have not hedged foreign currency exposures, but we may in the future hedge foreign currency denominated sales. there is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products. this reliance could harm our business and prospects. we rely on one or only a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components or subassemblies for our products. obtaining alternative sources of supply of these components could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. the failure of a component supplier or contract assembler to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely components or assembly service at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. any disruption of supplies of key components could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales. 40 table of contents our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified nat diagnostic assays, pursuant to a fixed-price contract, is roche diagnostics corporation. we have a supply and purchase agreement for oligonucleotides for hpv with roche molecular systems, inc. each of these entities is an affiliate of roche diagnostics gmbh, which is one of our primary competitors in molecular diagnostics. we also have a supply agreement with an affiliate of ge for membranes used in connection with our thinprep product line. ge competes with us in our breast health and skeletal health businesses. we have only one third-party manufacturer for each of our molecular diagnostics instrument product lines, which exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. we have one third-party manufacturer for each of our molecular diagnostics instrument product lines. kmc systems, inc., or kmc systems, is the only manufacturer of the tigris instrument; stratec biomedical ag, or stratec, is the only manufacturer of the panther instrument; and tecan group ltd., or tecan, is the only manufacturer of the cervista high throughput automation system. we are dependent on these third-party manufacturers, and this dependence exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. we have no firm long-term commitments from kmc systems, stratec or tecan or any of our other contract manufacturers to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. if kmc systems, stratec, tecan or any of our other third-party manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with products in sufficient quantities, then instrument shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. further, because we place orders with our manufacturers based on forecasts of expected demand for our instruments, if we inaccurately forecast demand we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity or adequate quantities of components to meet our customers delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. we may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers to replace existing suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. we may not be able to find contract manufacturers that meet our needs, and even if we do, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. if we are required or elect to change contract manufacturers, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. we may experience unexpected problems and expenses associated with our planned consolidation of operations and facilities that could materially harm our business and prospects. we continually review our operations and facilities in an effort to reduce costs and increase efficiencies and are currently still in the process of completing the consolidation of our madison, wisconsin molecular diagnostics operations into our gen-probe facilities in san diego, california. we expect this consolidation to be completed in calendar 2014. during fiscal 2013, we moved our selenium panel coating production line into our digital detector manufacturing facility in newark, delaware from germany, and have completed the majority of consolidation of our breast biopsy operations, including manufacturing, research and development and sales support to our costa rica manufacturing facility and facilities in massachusetts. our breast biopsy operations consolidation is expected to be completed at or near the end of calendar 2013. uncertainty is inherent within the consolidation process, and unforeseen circumstances, costs and expenses could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt operations, including the timely delivery of products and service to customers, and impact product quality, which could materially harm our business and prospects. in addition, we may fail to retain key employees who possess specific knowledge or expertise and who we depend upon for the timely and successful transition, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of skilled workers at the new locations to handle the additional production and other demands, and the relocation may absorb significant management and key employee attention and resources. if any of these risks materialize, our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected. 41 table of contents we face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. a number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. in addition, some companies may have significant competitive advantages over us, which may make them more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, group purchasing organization, laboratories, and physicians, including: greater brand recognition; larger or more established distribution networks and customer bases; a broader product portfolio, resulting in the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; higher levels of automation and greater installed bases of such equipment; more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities and greater financial resources; and greater technical resources positioning them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce our gross margins. other companies may develop products that are superior to and/or less expensive than our products. improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. the current environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, together with current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures, may put additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes. if we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative products and treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed. our diagnostics segment depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce revenues in our diagnostics segment. although we do not currently have any customers that represent more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, a material portion of product sales in our diagnostics segment comes from a limited number of customers. we do not have any long-term commitments with these diagnostics customers, other than pursuant to our collaboration agreement with novartis. on november 11, 2013, novartis announced that it is selling its blood screening business to grifols. upon the consummation of that transaction, grifols will replace novartis as our blood screening collaborator. product sales from our blood screening collaboration accounted for 16.6% of our diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2013. our blood screening collaboration is largely dependent on two significant customers in the united states, the american red cross and creative testing solutions, although we do not receive any revenues directly from those entities. we anticipate that our operating results in our diagnostics segment will continue to depend, to a significant extent, upon revenues from a small number of customers. the loss of any of these key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to these customers, could significantly reduce our diagnostics segment revenues or profitability. 42 table of contents our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements. the markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. these trends will likely continue into the foreseeable future. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to enhance our existing products, successfully develop new products that meet increasingly challenging customer requirements and gain market acceptance. if we fail to do so our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. we will likely continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may reduce our profitability. historically, we have incurred significant costs in connection with the development and improvement of our products and technologies. we expect that research and development expenditures will remain high as we seek to expand our product offerings and continue to develop and improve products and technologies. as a result, we will need to continue to generate significant revenues to maintain current levels of profitability. we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to maintain current levels of profitability in the future. our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation. our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including: the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts; the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally; the development status and demand for our products; the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products and treatments; economic conditions in our markets; foreign exchange rates; the timing of orders; the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales; the mix of products we sell and markets we serve; regulatory approval of products; the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; pricing and other competitive conditions; unanticipated expenses; complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to as u.s. gaap; asset impairments; contingent consideration charges; restructuring and consolidation charges; and seasonality of sales of certain of our products. 43 table of contents customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. production difficulties could also delay shipments. any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects. some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting kickbacks and false or fraudulent claims. we are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the anti-kickback statute, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. while the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the fcpa, which prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. in many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the fcpa. in addition to the fcpa, our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the uk anti-bribery act. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. however, despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market. failure to comply with laws relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, may require us to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (hipaa), regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third party payors. these standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. in addition, under the federal health information technology for economic and clinical health act (hitech act), which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to 44 table of contents federal hipaa privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses may be deemed to serve as business associates to certain of our customers. on january 17, 2013, the office for civil rights of the department of health and human services released a final rule implementing the hitech act and making certain other changes to hipaa privacy and security requirements. compliance with the rule will increase the requirements applicable to some of our businesses. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. new regulations related to conflict minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. on august 22, 2012, the sec adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. the new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by may 31, 2014, will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country. the new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. in addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. in addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. the secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems and, if successful, misappropriate personal or confidential business information. in addition, an associate, contractor, or other third-party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. any such compromise of our data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to transact business with us, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities any of which could adversely affect our business. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our computer systems, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. we are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products. our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. if even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. we maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and 45 table of contents exclusions. there is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. an under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. in addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product competitive position in the market. the sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, inaccurate test results or caused injuries to a patient. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects. we use hazardous materials and products. our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. in the event of this type of accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. from time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. we continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. these regulations include, for example, the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemical substances (reach), the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive (rohs) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee) enacted in the european union which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. this and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in japan and china and various states of the united states may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. these redesigns or alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or have other similar effects. we believe we comply with all such legislation where our products are sold and we will continue to monitor these laws and the regulations being adopted under them to determine our responsibilities. we are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. we may incur losses in excess of our insurance coverage. our insurance coverage includes product liability, property, fire, terrorism and business interruption policies. our insurance coverage contains policy limits, specifications and exclusions. we believe that our insurance coverage is consistent with general practices within our industry. nonetheless, we may incur losses of a type for which we are not covered by insurance or which exceed the limits of liability of our insurance policies. in that event, we could experience a significant loss which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. our future success depends on the continued services of key personnel. the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial 46 table of contents and technical personnel. competition for such personnel, particularly software engineers and other technical personnel is intense. we may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. our ongoing organizational and strategic changes review and any changes resulting from that review could harm our business if not effectively managed. we are undertaking a review of our organizational structure and business strategies. our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, and strategic partners could be adversely affected by this transition. if we fail to effectively manage our leadership change, including any ongoing organizational and strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed. an adverse change in the projected cash flows from our business units or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic uncertainty, could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. at least annually, we review the carrying value of our goodwill, and for other long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present, to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. in addition, the deterioration of a company market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. we assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and in evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, in connection with our company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure, we reduced our short term and long term revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our molecular diagnostics reporting unit, which is in our diagnostics segment. the molecular diagnostics reporting unit is primarily comprised of our aptima business acquired in the gen-probe acquisition in fiscal 2012 and the molecular diagnostics business acquired in the third wave acquisition in fiscal 2008. the updated forecast, which reflects recent pricing pressures, is now lower, and the current projections for revenue and profitability are lower than those expected at the time of the gen-probe acquisition. as such, the fair value of this reporting unit declined. as a result of performing step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the completion of a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the fair value of the implied goodwill, we recorded a $1.1 billion goodwill impairment charge. for further information of this charge, refer to note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in item 15 of this annual report. all of our other reporting units passed step 1 of the goodwill impairment test in fiscal 2013. although we use reasonable methodologies for developing assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic uncertainty could negatively affect our anticipated future cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each reporting unit, to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test in fiscal 2014. our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. we are subject to income taxes and non-income based taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. in certain instances, we take certain income tax return positions and provide additional 47 table of contents taxes if it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will not withstand a tax authority challenge. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we regularly evaluate the audits likely outcomes to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and tax reserves. however, we can give no assurance that we will accurately predict the audits outcomes, which could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than prior years due to numerous factors, including a change in our geographic earnings mix and changes in tax laws or tax rulings. u.s. law makers are considering several u.s. corporate tax reform proposals including those that may reduce or eliminate u.s. income tax deferral on unrepatriated foreign earnings and eliminate tax incentives such as the domestic manufacturing deduction and research credits in exchange for a lower u.s. statutory tax rate. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have a material impact on our business and operating results. risks relating to our indebtedness we incurred significant indebtedness in order to finance the acquisition of gen-probe, which will limit our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. as of september 28, 2013, we had approximately $4.96 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness. we also have other contractual obligations and deferred tax liabilities. this significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we participate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. in addition, the terms of our credit facilities require us to meet certain financial covenants that are customary with these types of credit facilities, which are described in note 5 borrowings and credit arrangements in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 15 of this annual report. our ability to comply with these covenants may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we could default under the credit facilities, which could cause us to be unable to borrow additional amounts under the credit facilities and may result in the acceleration of the maturity of our outstanding indebtedness under the facilities. if the maturities were accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment, and if we were unable to make additional borrowings under the facilities, we may not be able to make investments in our business to support our strategy or we may end up in bankruptcy proceedings, or other processes, in which our business would be negatively impacted. in addition, our shareholders could be adversely 48 table of contents impacted as shareholder value could decrease to a point of limited return. each scenario would result in significant negative implications to our liquidity and results of operations. further, the terms of our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to: incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions or restricted payments; make certain investments; agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries; sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with our affiliates; create liens; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including the senior notes. our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we can give no assurance that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. if this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. these alternative strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. 49 table of contents a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments. a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. as of september 28, 2013, approximately $2.24 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represents the outstanding principal under our tranche a term loan facility and our tranche b term loan facility, was subject to floating interest rates. we currently have no hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates. risks relating to our common stock future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. we may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. in addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. the hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our convertible notes, or any common stock that note holders receive upon conversion of their notes. future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the value of our convertible notes prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. in addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options or for other reasons. provisions in our charter, bylaws, indebtedness and stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the delaware general corporation law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. in addition, we have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. these provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. 50 table of contents our stock price is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. we believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; general conditions in the worldwide economy; our stock repurchase program; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future; and the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. the price of our common stock also may be adversely affected by the amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible notes. in addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of high-tech companies, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. our previously announced stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. on november 11, 2013, we announced that our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of our outstanding common stock over the next three years. under the stock repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase, from time-to-time, shares of our outstanding common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions in the united states. the timing and amount of stock repurchases will be determined based upon our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. the stock repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our common stock under the program. repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. 51 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 100 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments . financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, a publicly traded equity security, cost-method equity investments, mutual funds, insurance contracts and related deferred compensation plan liabilities, accounts payable and debt obligations. except for our outstanding convertible notes and senior notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. as of september 28, 2013, we have $1.725 billion of principal of convertible notes outstanding, which are comprised of our 2007 notes with a principal of $405.0 million, our 2010 notes with a principal of $450.0 million, our 2012 notes with a principal of $500.0 million, and our 2013 notes with a principal of $370.0 million. the convertible notes are recorded net of the unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of our 2007 notes, 2010 notes, 2012 notes and 2013 notes as of september 28, 2013 was approximately $405.0 million, $510.8 million, $518.8 million and $385.7 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior notes was approximately $1.05 billion. 100 table of contents amounts outstanding under our credit agreement aggregating $2.24 billion aggregate principal as of september 28, 2013 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value. primary market risk exposures . our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. we incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our convertible notes, senior notes and credit agreement. the convertible notes and senior notes have fixed interest rates. borrowings under our credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, initially, with respect to all loans made under term loan a (i) at the base rate plus 1.00% per annum, or (ii) at the adjusted eurodollar rate (i.e., the libor rate) plus 2.00%, and with respect to loans made under term loan b: (i) at the base rate, with a floor of 2.00%, plus 1.75%, or (ii) at the adjusted eurodollar rate, with a floor of 1.00% plus 2.75%. as of september 28, 2013, there was $2.24 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the credit agreement comprised of $950.0 million under the term loan a facility and $1.29 billion under the term loan b facility. since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. a 10% adverse movement (increase in libor rate) would increase annual interest expense by less than $1 million due to the low current interest rate environment and the floor on our term loan b facility. the return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. foreign currency exchange risk. our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. we conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the united states as well as manufacturing facilities in costa rica, germany, england, canada and china. the expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our costa rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in u.s. dollars. our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the euro, u.s. dollar and renminbi. fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. in addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. we believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the u.s. dollar against the euro. our expenses, denominated in euros, are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens against the euro and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens. however, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. during fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $0.5 million, $0.8 million and $(0.7) million, respectively.