risk factors each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. we believe these risks to be the principal ones we face and of which we are currently aware. some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate to the spin-off. other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common stock. should any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. risks related to our operations failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we provide products and services into competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive. we may not be able to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. failure to continue competing successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers allocations to other purchasers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 17 table of contents our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. our historical growth has included acquisitions. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, our ability to realize financial benefits from six sigma and lean projects may not be able to mitigate fully or in part these manufacturing and operating cost increases and, as a result, could negatively impact our profitability. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in more than 150 countries and approximately 64% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2011. given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. we are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws. we are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and others. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. 18 table of contents we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violations of which could potentially create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. some of these proceedings seek remedies relating to environmental matters, intellectual property matters, product liability and personal injury claims, employment and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. additionally, we may receive fines or penalties or be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. our business could be adversely affected by interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. we also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, e.g. production, and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. although we have assessed these risks, implemented controls, and performed business continuity planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. risks related to liquidity our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2011, our total outstanding indebtedness was $1,206 million including our 3.55% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due september 2016 and 4.875% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due october 2021. we have an existing four year competitive advance and revolving credit facility (the credit facility ), which provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $600 million. our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and 19 table of contents increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in a higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of our preferred stock, the terms of the debt or our preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. also, regardless of the terms of our debt or equity financing, the amount of our stock that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our stock may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for itt under section 355(e) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and under the tax matters agreement entered into by itt in connection with the spin-off (the tax matters agreement ), we could be required to indemnify itt for that tax. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. risks related to external factors our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2011, 37% and 36% of our total revenue was from customers located in europe and the united states, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or downturn in these financial or macro-economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles, particularly within the portion of our business that provides products and services used in residential and commercial buildings. we believe our level of business activity is influenced by residential and commercial building starts and renovations, which are heavily influenced by interest rates, consumer debt levels, changes in disposable income, employment growth and consumer confidence. credit market conditions greatly affect the ability of residential and commercial builders to obtain the necessary capital to complete and begin new projects. we closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers, and evaluate their financial ability to pay for those products and services we provide to them. as it relates to our customers ability to pay for products and services, we have not experienced any significant negative impact as a result of the recent economic downturn. if market conditions worsen, it may result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers or potential customers and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and maintain current levels of profitability. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2011, 64% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states. we expect our international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; 20 table of contents potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; changes in tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; and insurrection or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, we now conduct more of our operations in emerging markets than we have in the past, which could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of our intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of our products, and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable events might have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. weather conditions, particularly heavy flooding and droughts, can benefit portions of our business which provide equipment with dewatering and irrigation applications. pumps provided through our godwin brand are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand 21 table of contents for these applications. drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds, flowtronex and lowara brands. we cannot assure you that weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to remediation of conditions in the environment. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. risks related to our recent separation if the spin-off were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the internal revenue code, then we and/or our former parent and our stockholders could be subject to significant tax liability. in connection with the spin-off, we and our former parent, itt corporation, received an irs ruling (the irs ruling ) stating that itt and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off. in addition, itt received an opinion of tax counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the spin-off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the irs did not rule. the irs ruling, while generally binding upon the irs, was based on certain factual statements and representations. if any such factual statements or representations were incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the irs ruling were based were materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off, the irs could modify or revoke the irs ruling retroactively. as discussed above, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the irs ruling were addressed in the opinion of counsel. the opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs. accordingly, the irs may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. like the irs ruling, the opinion was based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter counsel conclusions. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction because any of the factual statements or representations in the irs ruling or the legal opinion are incomplete or untrue, or because the facts upon which the irs ruling is based were materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off, itt would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under u.s. treasury regulations each member of the itt consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries), would be jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of any resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. notwithstanding the foregoing, the spin-off will be taxable to itt (but not to itt shareholders) pursuant to section 355(e) of the internal revenue code if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or itt, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock 22 table of contents of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. the tax liability resulting from the application of section 355(e) would be substantial. in addition, under u.s. treasury regulations, each member of the itt consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries) would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. we have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to itt, including under section 355(e). pursuant to the tax matters agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 among itt, exelis and xylem, we have also agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and itt and exelis have agreed to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions entered into by itt or exelis. these obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. as an independent, publicly traded company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, (i) greater strategic focus of financial resources and management efforts, (ii) enhanced customer focus, (iii) direct and differentiated access to capital resources, (iv) enhanced investor choices by offering investment opportunities in a separate entity from itt, (v) improved management incentive tools, and (vi) utilization of stock as an acquisition currency. however, as a result of separating from itt, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been as a part of itt. in addition, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. we may incur greater costs as an independent company than we did when we were part of itt. as a part of itt, we had the advantage of itt size and purchasing power in procuring certain goods and services such as insurance and health care benefits, and technology such as computer software licenses. we also relied on itt to provide various corporate functions. as a separate, independent entity, we may be unable to obtain these goods, services and technologies at prices or on terms as favorable to us as those we obtained prior to the distribution. we may also incur costs for functions previously performed by itt that are higher than the amounts reflected in our historical financial statements, which may cause our profitability to decrease. we do not have a recent operating history as an independent company and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical financial information we have included in this annual report has been prepared on a carve-out basis from itt consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. itt did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity or segment for all the periods presented. in addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. while we were profitable as part of itt, we cannot assume that as a stand-alone company our profits will continue at a similar level. our customers, prospective customers and suppliers will need assurances that our financial stability on a stand-alone basis is sufficient to satisfy their requirements for doing or continuing to do business with them. some of our customers, prospective customers, and suppliers will need assurances that our financial stability on a stand-alone basis is sufficient to satisfy their requirements for doing or continuing to do business with them. if our customers, prospective customers or suppliers are not satisfied with our financial stability, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bid for and obtain or retain projects, our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject as a new independent, publicly traded company. our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of itt, and we believe that our financial reporting and internal controls were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. however, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). as an independent, publicly traded company, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the exchange act. beginning with our annual report on form 10-k for the year ending december 31, 2012, we will be required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ), which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. these reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. under the sarbanes-oxley act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. we expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and those expenses may be significant. if we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the exchange act could be impaired. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the spin-off left us, itt and/or exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that we, itt and/or exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. among other things, the court could require the return of assets or our shares to itt, voiding the liens of xylem and claims against itt, or providing itt with a claim for money damages against us. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction law is applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if either the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or it is unlikely to be able to pay its liabilities as they become due. no assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, itt or exelis were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off. the spin-off could also be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. under the indiana business corporation law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. no assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution of our shares in connection with the spin-off was unlawful. under the distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off, we will be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which we own and operate following the consummation of the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any of these or other obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the distribution agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by itt or exelis should itt or exelis fail to pay or perform its retained obligations (for example, tax, asbestos and/or environmental liabilities). 24 table of contents in connection with our separation, itt and exelis will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt or exelis indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt or exelis ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt and exelis, itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. risks relating to our common stock you face the following risks in connection with ownership of our common stock: there is not a long market history for our common stock and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 25 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt-payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or reducing our dividend. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. for example, the amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, provide for a classified board and require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, do not permit shareholders to convene special meetings and do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders. in addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us, as well as certain restrictions on the voting rights of control shares of an issuing public corporation. under the tax matters agreement, we have agreed not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition (including issuance) of xylem common stock or any other transaction (or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction) that could cause the spin-off to be taxable to itt. we have also agreed to indemnify itt for any tax resulting from any such transactions. generally, itt will recognize taxable gain on the spin-off if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then-outstanding capital stock, and the acquisitions or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. as a result, our obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign currency exchange and interest rates. these exposures are actively monitored by management. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is due to certain costs, revenues and borrowings being denominated in currencies other than one of our subsidiary functional currency. similarly, we are exposed to market risk as the result of changes in interest rates which may affect the cost of our financing. it is our policy and practice to use derivative financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposures. 49 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk our foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we may use derivative financial instruments to offset risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, when it is believed that the exposure will not be limited by our normal operating and financing activities. in january 2012, we began to periodically enter into currency forward contracts in order to manage the exchange rate fluctuation risk on certain intercompany transactions. our principal currency exposures relate to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would not be material to xylem financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2011, we do not have a material exposure to interest rate risk as our debt portfolio entirely comprises long-term, fixed-rate instruments. we do not account for our long-term debt using the fair value option. commodity price exposures portions of our business are exposed to volatility in the prices of certain commodities, such as copper, nickel and aluminum, among others. our primary exposure to this volatility resides with the use of these materials in purchased component parts. we generally maintain long-term fixed price contracts on raw materials and component parts; however, we are prone to exposure as these contracts expire. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in prices for raw metal commodities would not be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 50 table of contentsrisk factors each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. we believe these risks to be the principal ones we face and of which we are currently aware. some of the risks described below relate to our operations, while others relate to residual risks from our separation from itt corporation in 2011 ("the spin-off"). other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common stock. should any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. risks related to our operations failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we provide products and services into competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive. we may not be able to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. failure to continue competing successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. our historical growth has included acquisitions. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we cannot make assurances, however, that we will be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. 16 our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, our ability to realize financial benefits from six sigma and lean projects may not be able to mitigate fully or in part these manufacturing and operating cost increases and, as a result, could negatively impact our profitability. our ability to successfully manage our restructuring and realignment actions could impact our business results. we expect to incur approximately $60 to $70 million of restructuring and realignment costs in 2013, including costs related to the establishment of a european headquarters and management structure to better align xylem to serve our customers and address market opportunities as well as optimize our cost base. successfully executing and managing these actions, including establishing the most effective organizational structures and the retention of key employees, is critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace. other factors that may impede an effective restructuring and realignment include the impact of regulatory matters and adverse economic market conditions. if this organizational redesign is not executed successfully, the company's financial results could be adversely impacted. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in more than 150 countries and approximately 63% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2012 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products that we make or sell can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries considered to have a high risk of corruption. we are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws. we are subject, however, to the risk that we or our affiliated entities or our representatives or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents, may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws or regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and others. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, 17 investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and also damage to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses, including acquisitions and divestitures. some of these proceedings seek remedies relating to environmental matters, intellectual property matters, product liability and personal injury claims, employment, labor and pension matters, and government and commercial or contract issues, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. additionally, we may receive fines or penalties or be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. our business could be adversely affected by interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. we also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, e.g. production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls, and perform business continuity planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. risks related to liquidity our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2012 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $1,205 million including our 3.55% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due september 2016 and 4.875% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due october 2021. we have an existing four year competitive advance and revolving credit facility (the credit facility ), which provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $600 million. additionally, effective december 14, 2012, we entered into a risk sharing finance facility agreement (the "r&amp;d facility agreement") with the european investment bank ("eib") in an aggregate principal amount of up to 120 million (approximately $158 million ). our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and 18 increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. also, regardless of the terms of our debt or equity financing, the amount of our stock that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our stock may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for itt under section 355(e) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and under the tax matters agreement entered into by itt in connection with the spin-off (the tax matters agreement ), we could be required to indemnify itt for that tax. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. risks related to external factors our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2012 , 37% and 35% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states and europe, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or downturn in these financial or macro-economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2012 , 63% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states. we expect our international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; changes in tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; and insurrection or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, we now conduct more of our operations in emerging markets than we have in the past, which could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging 19 markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products, and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable events might have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. weather conditions, particularly heavy flooding and droughts, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, our pumps provided through our godwin brand are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology, flowtronex and lowara brands. given the unpredictable nature of weather conditions, this may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 20 risks relating to our common stock the following are risks in connection with ownership of our common stock: there is a limited market history for our common stock and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt-payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or reducing our dividend. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition part or all of our business operations for example, the amended and 21 restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, provide for a classified board of directors and require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, do not permit shareholders to convene special meetings and do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders. in addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us, as well as certain restrictions on the voting rights of control shares of an issuing public corporation. under the tax matters agreement, we have agreed not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition (including issuance) of xylem common stock or any other transaction (or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction) that could cause the spin-off to be taxable to itt. we have also agreed to indemnify itt for any tax resulting from any such transactions. generally, itt will recognize taxable gain on the spin-off if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then-outstanding capital stock, and the acquisitions or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. as a result, our obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. risks related to our 2011 separation from itt corporation if the spin-off were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the internal revenue code, then we and/or our former parent and our stockholders could be subject to significant tax liability. in connection with the spin-off, we and our former parent, itt corporation, received an irs ruling (the irs ruling ) stating that itt and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off. in addition, itt received an opinion of tax counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the spin-off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the irs did not rule. the irs ruling, while generally binding upon the irs, was based on certain factual statements and representations. if any such factual statements or representations were incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the irs ruling were based were materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off, the irs could modify or revoke the irs ruling retroactively. as discussed above, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the irs ruling were addressed in the opinion of counsel. the opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs. accordingly, the irs may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. like the irs ruling, the opinion was based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter counsel's conclusions. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction because any of the factual statements or representations in the irs ruling or the legal opinion are incomplete or untrue, or because the facts upon which the irs ruling is based were materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off, itt would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under u.s. treasury regulations each member of the itt consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries), would be jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of any resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. notwithstanding the foregoing, the spin-off will be taxable to itt (but not to itt shareholders) pursuant to section 355(e) of the internal revenue code if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or itt, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. the tax liability resulting from the application of section 355(e) would be substantial. in addition, under u.s. treasury regulations, each member of the itt consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries) would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. we have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to itt, including under section 355(e). pursuant to the tax matters agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 among itt, 22 exelis and xylem, we have also agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and itt and exelis have agreed to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions entered into by itt or exelis. these obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. we may be unable to achieve all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. as an independent, publicly traded company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, (i) greater strategic focus of financial resources and management's efforts, (ii) enhanced customer focus, (iii) direct and differentiated access to capital resources, (iv) enhanced investor choices by offering investment opportunities in a separate entity from itt, (v) improved management incentive tools, and (vi) utilization of stock as an acquisition currency. however, as a result of separating from itt, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been as a part of itt. in addition, we may not be able to achieve all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. we have a limited operating history as an independent company and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. certain historical financial information we have included in this annual report has been prepared on a carve-out basis from itt's consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been as a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. itt did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity or segment for all the periods presented. in addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations and financial position will be in the future. while we were profitable as part of itt, we cannot assume that as a stand-alone company our profits will continue at a similar level. the spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the spin-off left us, itt and/or exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that we, itt and/or exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. among other things, the court could require the return of assets or our shares to itt, voiding the liens of xylem and claims against itt, or providing itt with a claim for money damages against us. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if either the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or it is unlikely to be able to pay its liabilities as they become due. no assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, itt or exelis were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off. the spin-off could also be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. under the indiana business corporation law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. no assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution of our shares in connection with the spin-off was unlawful. under the distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off, we will be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which we own and operate following the consummation of the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any of these or other obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the distribution agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by itt or exelis should itt or exelis fail to pay or perform its retained obligations (for example, tax, asbestos and/or environmental liabilities). 23 in connection with our separation, itt and exelis will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis's indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt and exelis, itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign currency exchange and interest rates. these exposures are actively monitored by management. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is due to certain costs, revenues and borrowings being denominated in currencies other than one of our subsidiaries functional currency. similarly, we are exposed to market risk as the result of changes in interest rates which may affect the cost of our financing. it is our policy and practice to use derivative financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposures. foreign currency exchange rate risk our foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we may use derivative financial instruments to offset risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, when it is believed that the exposure will not be limited by our normal operating and financing activities. in january 2012, we began to enter into currency forward contracts periodically in order to manage the exchange rate fluctuation risk on certain intercompany transactions associated with third party sales and purchases. our principal currency exposures relate to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would not be material to xylem's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2012, we do not have a material exposure to interest rate risk as our debt portfolio entirely comprises long-term, fixed-rate instruments. we do not account for our long-term debt using the fair value option. commodity price exposures portions of our business are exposed to volatility in the prices of certain commodities, such as copper, nickel and aluminum, among others. our primary exposure to this volatility resides with the use of these materials in purchased component parts. we generally maintain long-term fixed price contracts on raw materials and component parts; however, we are prone to exposure as these contracts expire. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in prices for raw metal commodities would not be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 51risk factors and those described from time to time in subsequent filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2013 revenue of $3.8 billion and more than 12,500 employees, is a world leader in the design, manufacturing, and application of highly engineered technologies for the water industry. we are a leading equipment and service provider for water and wastewater applications with a broad portfolio of products and services addressing the full cycle of water, from collection, distribution and use to the return of water to the environment. we have leading market positions among equipment and service providers in the core application areas of the water equipment industry: transport, treatment, test, building services, industrial processing and irrigation. our company's brands, such as bell &amp; gossett and flygt, are well known throughout the industry and have served the water market for many years. we serve a global customer base across diverse end markets while offering localized expertise. we sell our products in more than 150 countries through a balanced distribution network consisting of our direct sales force and independent channel partners. in 2013 , 62% of our revenue was generated outside the united states, with 36% of revenue generated in europe. we initiated an organizational redesign during the fourth quarter of 2013, shifting from individually managed businesses to an integrated approach within geographical regions. we expect that this will enable us to leverage the breadth of the company's product and services portfolio to better serve our customers and address market opportunities as well as effectively utilize internal support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. this organizational redesign has implications on how we will manage the business and the 3 related measurement system by which we will hold our management team accountable. we are in the process of changing our measurement system, including our underlying accounting system, which we expect to complete by the middle of 2014. our industry our planet faces a serious water challenge. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and this percentage is declining due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and climate change. in addition, demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient supply, existing infrastructure for water supply is relatively underfunded and aging. in the united states, degrading pipe systems leak one out of every six gallons of water, on average, on its way from a treatment plant to the customer. these challenges are driving opportunities for growth in the global water industry, which we estimate to have a total market size of approximately $550 billion . the water industry supply chain is comprised of equipment and services companies, design and build service providers, and water utilities. equipment and service providers serve distinct customer types. the utilities type supply water through an infrastructure network. companies that operate on this side of the supply chain provide single, or sometimes combined, functions from equipment manufacturing and services to facility design (engineering, procurement and construction, or epc firms) to plant operations (utilities), as depicted below in figure 1. the utility and epc customers are looking for technology and application expertise from their equipment and services providers, due to trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. the customer type serves the end users of water and comprises a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities and residential homes. these customers are predominately served through specialized distributors and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ). figure 1: water industry supply chain our business focuses on the beginning of the supply chain by providing technology-intensive equipment and services. we sell our equipment and services via direct and indirect channels that serve the needs of each customer type. on the utility side, we provide the majority of our sales direct to customers with strong application expertise, with the remaining amount going through distribution partners. to end users of water, we provide the majority of our sales through long-standing relationships with the world's leading distributors, with the remainder going direct to customers. 4 the equipment and services market addresses the key processes of the water industry, which are best illustrated through the cycle of water, as depicted in figure 2, below. we believe this industry has two distinct sectors within the cycle of water: water infrastructure and usage applications. the key processes of this cycle begin when raw water is extracted by pumps, which provide the necessary pressure and flow, to move, or transport, this water from natural sources, such as oceans, ground water, lakes and rivers, through pipes to treatment facilities. treatment facilities can provide many forms of treatment, such as filtration, disinfection and desalination, to remove solids, bacteria, and salt, respectively. throughout each of these stages, analytical instruments test the treated water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be utilized by end-use customers. a network of pipes and pumps again transports this clean water to where it is needed, such as to crops for irrigation, to power plants to provide cooling in industrial water, or to an apartment building as drinking water in residential and commercial buildings. after usage, the wastewater is collected by a separate network of pipes and pumps and transported to a wastewater treatment facility, where processes such as digestion deactivate and reduce the volume of solids, and disinfection purifies effluent water. once treated, analytical instruments test the treated water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be discharged back to the environment, thereby completing the cycle. figure 2: cycle of water in the water infrastructure sector, two primary end markets exist: public utility and industrial. the public utility market comprises public, private and public-private institutions that handle water and wastewater for mostly residential and commercial purposes. the industrial market involves the supply of water and removal of wastewater for industrial facilities. we view the main macro drivers of this sector to be water quality, the desire for energy-efficient products, water scarcity, regulatory requirements and infrastructure needs, for both the repair of aging systems in developed countries as well as new installations in emerging markets. in the usage applications sector, end-use customers fall into four main markets: residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural. homeowners represent the end users in the residential market. owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, restaurants, hospitals, and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market is wide ranging, involving developers and managers of facilities operated by electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage production and dispensing firms, and car washes. the agricultural market end users are owners and operators of businesses such as crop and livestock farms, aquaculture, golf courses, and other turf applications. we believe population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are the primary macro drivers of these markets, as these trends drive the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. water reuse and conservation are driving the need for new technologies. 5 business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: advance our high performance organization. we plan to continue to operate with an emphasis on speed, simplicity and accountability. we focus on attracting, developing and managing talent within the company. further, we align individual performance to the objectives of the company in order to ensure accountability, standardization and alignment of all key business processes, and to ensure a seamless transition from strategy to execution. drive profitable growth. to achieve our goal of accelerating growth, we have identified the following four priorities: leverage integrated front end resources - we plan to drive more sales growth through our regionally integrated sales organization. we will enhance our marketing and sales capabilities with the assistance of digital marketing and automation. we will implement technologies we believe will accelerate our growth, including a customer relationship management system that will enable us to have a view of all customer touch points and to share leads and expertise. accelerate innovation and product renewal - we plan to focus our research and development on products designed to offer specialized advantages to customers; multi-product packages; and integrated offers that leverage xylem's intelligent analytics and monitoring and control technologies. accelerate international expansion - we plan to target fast-growing markets for additional investment and resource allocation, including the expansion of distribution and sales channels. we plan to customize product offerings based upon local needs. expand industrial end-market presence - we plan to build upon our current capabilities to serve industrial end-markets through the development of key vertical strategies, including channel development and market-specific offerings. improve operational excellence. we will focus on growth in our operating margins to make the company more profitable. to accomplish this, we will build on our global strategic sourcing capability to maximize leverage from global spend and reinvigorate lean capabilities. we are committed to optimizing our cost structure by eliminating unnecessary costs and inefficient overhead, as well as by simplifying the business by streamlining product relationships across our businesses. we have been executing our plan to simplify our business through restructuring and realignment actions which we believe will better position the company for the future and enable us to re-prioritize investments to high-priority areas. we will also continue to align the company to leverage our existing cost structure and broad product portfolio into a greater competitive advantage. we will implement additional cost reductions in an effort to further reduce manufacturing, selling and general and administrative costs. optimize capital deployment. we plan to continue to allocate capital strategically in an effort to drive strong returns for shareholders, taking decisive action to pivot our portfolio composition and future growth investments in order to create the greatest value. these investments include share repurchases, dividend payments and acquisitions. we intend to continue to execute on our share repurchase programs. we recently announced a 10% increase in our quarterly dividend to shareholders. finally, although we announced a slow down in acquisitions during 2013 as we focused on growth and operational efficiency, we will continue to selectively evaluate and pursue acquisitions that will broaden our core product portfolio, expand our geographic footprint and enhance our position in strategic markets. business segments we operate in two business segments that are aligned with the cycle of water and the key strategic market applications they provide: water infrastructure (collection, distribution, return) and applied water (usage). see note 21 , industry segment and geographic data, in our consolidated and combined financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. 6 the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2013 revenue % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,812 74 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment test equipment controls flygt wedeco godwin pumps wtw sanitaire ysi leopold treatment 329 14 % test 298 12 % $ 2,439 100 % applied water building services $ 696 50 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems goulds water technology bell &amp; gossett ac fire standard lowara jabsco flojet flowtronex industrial water 600 43 % irrigation 102 7 % $ 1,398 100 % water infrastructure water infrastructure involves the process that collects water from a source and distributes it to users, and then returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment. within the water infrastructure segment, our pump systems transport water from oceans, groundwater, lakes and rivers. from there, our filtration, ultraviolet and ozone systems provide treatment, making the water fit for use. after consumption, our pump lift stations move the wastewater to treatment facilities where our mixers, biological treatment, monitoring, and control systems provide the primary functions in the treatment process. throughout each of these stages, our analytical systems test to ensure quality of water for consumption as well as for its return to nature. water infrastructure serves its customers, public utilities and industrial applications, through three closely linked applications: transport, treatment and test of water and wastewater. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $20 billion. transport the transport application includes all of the equipment and services involved in the safe and efficient movement of water from sources such as oceans, lakes, rivers and ground water, to treatment facilities, and then to users. it also includes the movement of wastewater from the point of use to a treatment facility and then back into the environment. finally, the transport application also includes dewatering pumps, equipment and services which provide the safe removal or draining of ground water and surface water from a riverbed, construction site or mine shaft. we serve the higher-value equipment markets, such as water and wastewater submersible pumps, monitoring controls, and application solutions; we do not serve the market for lower-value equipment such as pipes and fittings. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. with operations on six continents, we also have one of the world's largest dewatering rental fleets, serviced with our flygt and godwin brands. in our water infrastructure segment, transport accounted for approximately 74% of our segment revenue in 2013 and 73% in 2012 . flygt flygt is a world-leader in the design and manufacture of dry and submersible pumps and related intelligent controls systems. under the flygt banner, customers have access to a complete range of products and solutions for moving water, wastewater, and advanced monitoring and control equipment to optimize their use. founded in sweden in 1901, flygt is the originator of the reliable, energy-efficient electrical submersible pump. flygt products 7 have applications in various markets, including wastewater lift stations, water and wastewater treatment facilities, pressurized sewage systems, oil and gas, steel, mining and leisure markets. customers include public utility and industrial water and wastewater systems operators. in 2012, xylem successfully launched flygt experior which brings together advanced controls, hydraulics and energy-efficient motor technology to deliver substantial energy savings. for example, energy consumption at london's heathrow airport cargo center pump station was reduced by 50% following installation of the new flygt experior pumps. godwin pumps with more than 35 years as a leader in pump manufacturing and applications, godwin pumps ("godwin") has established itself as a well-recognized, market leading brand in the global portable pump market. godwin manufactures, sells, rents and services its products. its quick response and 24/7 capabilities allow it to provide customized pumping solutions to meet the specific needs of its customers. founded in quenington, england, godwin is currently headquartered in bridgeport, new jersey. godwin's products include fully automatic self-priming dri-prime pumps, a full range of flygt electric submersible pumps, heidra hydraulic submersible pumps, wet-prime gasoline-powered contractor pumps and a broad line of generators and portable light towers, as well as a multitude of pumping accessories and pipe. godwin products are primarily used in construction, water &amp; wastewater transport, oil &amp; gas markets, hydraulic fracturing, industrial, mining, and municipal, as well as government, temporary fire protection, environmental, agriculture, and marine. godwin products are also instrumental in disaster relief efforts. after superstorm sandy hit the united states in october 2012, godwin's pumps were instrumental in minimizing or eliminating flood damage in various flooded regions throughout the northeast. godwin's fleet of equipment is rented through 45 u.s. branches and a global network of distributors and xylem rental and sales facilities. treatment the treatment application includes equipment and services that treat both water for consumption and wastewater to be returned responsibly to the environment. primary served markets include public utilities and industrial operations. while there are several treatment solutions in the market today, we focus on three basic treatment types: (i) filtration, (ii) disinfection and (iii) biological treatment systems. filtration uses gravity-based media filters and clarifiers to clean both water and wastewater. leopold, with more than 80 years of experience, is our leading filtration brand. disinfection systems, both ultraviolet ("uv") and ozone oxidation, treat both public utility drinking water and wastewater, as well as industrial process water, and are provided through our wedeco brand. biological treatment systems are key to the treatment and mixing of solids in wastewater plants, which are provided through our sanitaire and flygt brands. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. in our water infrastructure segment, treatment accounted for approximately 14% of our segment revenue in 2013 and 15% in 2012 . leopold founded in 1924 in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, leopold is a leader in rapid gravity media filtration and clarification solutions for the water and wastewater industry. in potable drinking water treatment plants, the clari-daf system is used to clarify raw water to remove contaminants such as turbidity, algae, color, iron/manganese, organics, and taste and odor compounds. several years ago, we augmented our filtration products with membrane technology. our filtration products include the rapid gravity media, membranes and reverse osmosis/ultrafine filtration. leopold gravity media filtration is used in potable water treatment plants to remove particulate in the final filtration step. in public utility wastewater treatment plants, the clarivac system is used in final clarifiers to remove the sludge solids. for those areas where nitrogen and phosphorus nutrient removal is required, we provide elimi-nite systems which convert the filters to become biologically active so that the effluent meets the mandated nitrate and phosphorus levels. in desalination systems, leopold clari-daf systems and filterworx systems are provided to remove contaminants that will harm reverse osmosis membranes, so that salt can be removed from the seawater to make it potable. primary customers are public utility water and wastewater systems, as well as desalination plant facilities. leopold won an order in the fourth quarter of 2013 to provide a new pre-treatment daf system to help ensure an uninterrupted potable water supply to abu dhabi emirate and the east coast of the united arab emirates. the source water in the arabian gulf is subject to harmful algal blooms also known as "red-tides." xylem's leopold clari-daf system is proven to be over 95 percent effective in removing these microorganisms prior to desalination, ensuring the production of clean, fresh, drinking water. wedeco wedeco was founded in 1975 in herford, germany to develop chemical-free and environmentally friendly water treatment technologies, including ultraviolet light and ozone systems. there are more than 250,000 installed wedeco systems for uv disinfection and ozone oxidation globally in private, public utility and industrial locations. wedeco introduced ozone technology in 1988 and has been expanding internationally ever since. uv disinfection systems have a number of applications including water treatment and aquaculture. ozone disinfection systems have applications in drinking water, wastewater, process water, product polishing, bleaching, ozonolysis/ 8 synthesis and deodorization. customers include public utility wastewater and clean water treatment facilities, power plants, pulp and paper mills, food product manufacturers and aquaculture facilities. in the fourth quarter of 2013, a wedeco lbx 1000 uv system was installed in a hospital in the german city of warstein to combat an outbreak of legionnaire's disease, a potentially fatal form of pneumonia which had contaminated a municipal wastewater treatment plant. sanitaire launched in 1967, the sanitaire brand provides complete biological wastewater treatment solutions for public utility and industrial applications. sanitaire's comprehensive offering includes diffused aeration, sequencing batch reactors, drum filters and state-of-the-art controls that drive efficient operations. sanitaire is regarded as a leading brand in diffused aeration, which is a process that introduces air into a liquid, providing an aerobic environment for degradation of organic matter. fine-pore diffusion of air is highly competitive due to its high oxygen transfer efficiency and lower energy costs. sanitaire wide-band aeration systems are used in applications such as grit chambers and sludge that require non-clogging, maintenance-free systems. principal sanitaire customers are public utility and industrial wastewater treatment facilities. in 2013, xylem launched the sanitaire oscar process performance optimization system. when combined with sanitaire's advanced aeration system, xylem was able to deliver 65 percent energy savings to the operators of the sterno, sweden wastewater treatment plant. flygt flygt is a also a world-leader in the design and manufacturing of submersible, jet and top-entry mixers. flygt has over 30 years of expertise in the area of wastewater treatment mixing, as well as over 100,000 applications globally. submersible mixers are often used in sewage treatment plants to keep solids in suspension in the various process tanks and/or sludge holding tanks. during the fourth quarter of 2013, xylem won an order to provide flygt submersible mixers for the panama canal. the project includes four anti-sedimentation mixers at each lock gate of a new panama canal channel, as well as local electrical panels and accessories. test analytical instrumentation is used across most industries to ensure regulatory requirements are met. growth in this market is primarily driven by increasing regulation of water and wastewater in north america, europe and asia. our served market is predominately focused on water and the environment for quality levels throughout the water infrastructure loop. analytical systems are applied in three primary ways: in the field, in a facility laboratory, or real time, online monitoring in a treatment facility process. we believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. in our water infrastructure segment, test accounted for approximately 12% of our segment revenue in both 2013 and 2012 . wtw in wastewater treatment facilities, wtw-branded systems monitor parameters such as dissolved oxygen, ph, and turbidity throughout the water process to ensure regulatory standards are met before water is discharged back into the environment. founded in 1945 as a major brand in europe, wtw has particularly strong market penetration in the environmental, water and wastewater segments. wtw holds leading market positions in both field and on-line instrumentation and manufactures premium positioned robust and reliable analysis products for the measurement of ph, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, total dissolved solids, turbidity, specific ions and biological oxygen demand. wtw's product offering includes meters, sensors, data-loggers, photometers and software providing customer solutions for even the most challenging applications. wtw instruments have been placed in major monitoring stations around the globe to monitor water quality. one of our largest installations is in the yangtze river station in china. ysi yellow springs instrument company ("ysi"), founded in 1948, develops and manufactures sensors, instruments, software and data collection platforms for environmental and coastal water quality monitoring and testing. ysi also offers life sciences products including biochemical analyzers for bioprocess monitoring, food and beverage processing, and sports physiology. the main market areas are water quality, environmental monitoring, aquaculture, life sciences and ocean research. ysi sensors played a critical role in monitoring water levels and providing other real-time data that helped track superstorm sandy which hit the mid-atlantic and northeast united states in october of 2012. oi analytical oceanography international corporation ("oic"), founded in 1969, provides innovative products used for chemical analysis. data from our analytical instruments serve as the basis for informed decisions affecting human health and safety, environmental protection, industrial operations and product quality. oic was originally focused on oceanography equipment moving to production of water-quality measurement instrumentation, as oceanography equipment sales declined. oic developed the company's first total organic carbon analyzer. since that time, the company has become recognized worldwide as a provider of quality analytical instrumentation. oic developed a total organic carbon analyzer in cooperation with national aeronautics and space administration 9 specifically for use on the international space station. without this validation that the drinking water has been purified for human consumption, the space station would not be suitable for astronaut habitation. aanderaa data instruments as ("aandera") was founded in 1966 in bergen, norway, and offers sensors, instruments and systems for measuring and monitoring in the most demanding environments such as rivers, oceans and the polar regions through fully networked systems using wireless technology that monitors temperature, salinity, oxygen, turbidity, current and waves for ecosystem health. the main market areas are marine transportation, environmental and ocean research, oil and gas, aquaculture, road and traffic, and construction. aanderaa's new technologies underlie the most advanced distributed instrumentation for underwater and atmospheric measurements. hydro-acoustic, electro-optical, electro-chemical, pressure, temperature and meteorological data are captured by observing networks and self-contained instrumentation using real-time communication. key customers include many oceanographic institutes, universities, geophysical surveyors, navies, offshore oil and gas companies, drilling companies, port and harbor authorities, government agencies, water authorities and international electric power utilities. key installations include our new on-line tide and salinity station at palmer station in the antarctic and coastal ocean wave and water quality monitoring station for united states geological survey alongside a national oceanic and atmospheric administration sentinel site in galveston, texas. applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water. since water is used to some degree in almost every aspect of human, economic and environmental activity, this segment has a significant number of potential applications and we participate in all major areas of water demand. irrigation applications constitute the majority of all water usage globally. examples of what we provide include: boosting systems for farming irrigation, pumps for dairy operations, and rainwater reuse systems for small scale crop and turf irrigation. industrial water applications account for the next largest amount of global water consumption. our pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls provide cooling to power plants and manufacturing facilities, as well as circulation for food and beverage processing. the remaining portion of global water use resides in human and building consumption, where we deliver water boosting systems for drinking, heating, ventilation and air conditioning ("hvac") and fire protection systems to residential and commercial building services. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $15 billion. residential &amp; commercial building services this business is defined by four main uses of water in building services applications, such as in residential homes and commercial buildings, including offices, hotels, hospitals, schools, restaurants and malls. the first application is in hvac, where bell &amp; gossett and lowara specialize in pumps and valves that are used in water-driven heating and cooling systems, along with heat exchangers, valves, and monitoring and control products that augment the system. the second is the supply of potable water for consumption, such as for drinking and hygiene. the goulds water technology and lowara brands provides pumps and boosting systems utilized within buildings, sourcing water from distribution networks or from wells. the third application is wastewater removal with sump and sewage pumps, provided by bell &amp; gossett, goulds water technology and lowara. the fourth water-related building service area is fire protection, where our ac fire brand supplies full pump systems for emergency fire suppression. bell &amp; gossett, goulds water technology and lowara have continued to innovate, focusing on providing industry-leading energy-efficient pumps for the building services market; many of these products are more efficient than competitive devices. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. in our applied water segment, building services accounted for approximately 50% of our segment revenue in 2013 and 53% in 2012 . industrial water water is used in most industrial facilities to provide processing steps such as cooling, heating, cleaning and mixing. our goulds water technology brand supplies vertical multistage pumps to bring in source water or to boost pressure for purposes such as circulating water through a manufacturing facility to cool machine tools. our lowara brand focuses on industrial washing equipment and machine tool cooling. our standard xchange brand delivers heat exchangers for combined heat and power applications within power generation plants. we also service niche applications such as flexible impeller pumps for wine processing facilities served by our jabsco brand, and water-based detergent dispensing and water circulation within car washes served by flojet and goulds water technology air-operated diaphragm and end suction pumps. our boosting pumps are also increasingly being used in hydraulic fracturing applications. across all these various end applications, we believe our business is the second largest player in this served market based on management estimates. in our applied water segment, industrial water accounted for approximately 43% of our segment revenue in 2013 and 40% in 2012 . 10 irrigation the irrigation business consists of irrigation-related equipment and services associated with bringing water from a source to the plant or livestock need, including hoses, sprinklers, center pivot and drip irrigation. we focus on the pumps and boosting systems that supply this ancillary equipment with water. our goulds water technology brand brings mixed flow pumps, and our flowtronex group specializes in equipment "packaged solutions" incorporating monitoring and controls to optimize energy efficiency in irrigation delivery. our lowara brand also produces pumps for agriculture applications and irrigation of gardens and parks. we believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. in our applied water segment, irrigation accounted for approximately 7% of our segment revenue in 2013 and 7% in 2012 . as described above, the following brands and products are used across the applications in our applied water segment: goulds water technology with origins dating back more than 150 years, goulds water technology is a leading brand of centrifugal and turbine pumps, controllers, variable frequency drives and accessories for residential and commercial water supply and wastewater applications. goulds water technology is a leader in the water technologies market with its line of residential water well pumps. the goulds water technology product portfolio includes submersible and line shaft turbine, 4 submersible, jet, sump, effluent, sewage and centrifugal pumps for residential, agriculture and irrigation, sewage and drainage, commercial and light industrial use. goulds water technology has various vertical configuration high pressure centrifugal pumps which are utilized for water boost, filtration and boiler feed applications in industrial environments. goulds water technology submersible, deepwell or other pumps can be found in more than a quarter of the existing 15 million household wells and more than 380,000 public and community wells in the united states. products for commercial wastewater include sewage, effluent and grinder pumps and packages. agriculture products include pump and control products for irrigation, stockwater, wash systems, cooling systems and waste management, with turf irrigation products, including submersible and surface pumps for landscape and turf irrigation systems. we serve the building trades market with filtration, chilling, pressure boost, wash system, water supply, wastewater and boiler feed applications. we also have a range of standard cast iron and bronze end-suction and multistage pumps for various commercial applications. during 2012, goulds water technology products were installed to help protect the ancient sphinx and pyramids in giza, egypt from rising ground water that was causing erosion to the soft limestone structures. lowara founded in 1968 in vicenza, italy, lowara is a leader in stainless steel pump manufacturing technology for water technology applications. the lowara range of products includes submersible, sump, effluent, sewage, centrifugal pumps and booster packages for water supply and water pumping needs in the residential, agriculture, industrial, public utility, building service and commercial markets worldwide, with particular strength in europe. residential applications include pumps for pressurization, conditioning, fire-fighting systems, lifting stations and dewatering. agriculture applications include pumps for irrigation of gardens and parks. industrial applications include drinking water, industrial washing equipment and machine tool cooling. the german water services company erftverband implemented a comprehensive system of lowara pumps and a hydrovar speed control smart system to address complex water management needs in korschenbroich and kaarst, germany during 2013. bell &amp; gossett founded in 1916 in chicago, illinois, bell &amp; gossett ("b&amp;g") is a leader in plumbing and water-based heating and air conditioning markets. products are used in residential applications where single- or multi-family homes are heated with hot water or steam. key products include circulating pumps, valves, and specialty products used in these systems. b&amp;g also sells wastewater pumps for commercial and residential applications. in commercial applications, b&amp;g provides a broad range of products, including a wide variety of pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls for heating and air-conditioning systems, sump pumps for wastewater systems, condensate pumping systems for steam heating systems and a comprehensive line of energy-saving variable speed controls. training is provided for building system design engineers at b&amp;g's industry renowned little red schoolhouse in morton grove, illinois which has educated more than 60,000 engineers. key commercial building types include hospitals, schools, and data centers. b&amp;g products are sold globally by independent manufacturer representatives and distributed locally by hvac wholesalers. one of the most interesting installations of b&amp;g products is at mcmurdo station in antarctica. mcmurdo is operated by the united states through the united states antarctica program, a branch of the national science foundation. this station includes more than 200 b&amp;g pumps in various applications throughout the facility. a-c fire pump allis-chalmers company ("a-c fire pump") was founded in the 1840s in milwaukee, wisconsin. it offers turnkey fire pump systems for commercial, residential and industrial applications. a-c fire pump designs and custom-builds a wide range of fire pump systems, including prefabricated packages and house units that meet 11 every fire protection need. a-c fire pump products include in-line pumps, vertical turbine, package systems, split case (various series) and 13d home defender for residential fire pump service. the 13d home defender is designed to boost water pressure for automatic residential sprinkler systems. in addition to residential applications, turnkey fire pumping systems from a-c fire pump protect an increasing number of petrochemical facilities, commercial buildings and factories around the world. during 2013, a-c fire pump provided fire pump packages to cnooc (chinese national offshore oil company) as part of a large project in china. flowtronex flowtronex, founded in 1974 as pumping systems, inc., began by producing some of the golf industry's first prefabricated water pumping systems. the silent storm package and pace integrated pump controller are our two primary products sold into the golf market. in landscape, flowtronex products, primarily the floboy system, are sold to customers such as cities and nurseries. in golf, flowtronex products are sold to golf course superintendents through our toro distribution partnership. retrofit sales of golf pumping systems are sold through our flownet service network, a group of factory authorized service technicians that provide set up and start up, and service and repair of flowtronex pump stations. flowtronex has pumping systems operating in more than seventy countries around the world. in the united states alone, 78 of the top 100 golf courses use flowtronex golf irrigation pumping systems. standard xchange since 1917, standard xchange has been the leader in the design and manufacture of shell and tube heat exchangers. standard xchange is the brand of our complete line of heat transfer products used in industrial and process applications such as heating or cooling liquids or gases, heat recovery in chemical processing, power and co-generation, paper and pulp, oem and commercial marine markets. products include basic shell-and-tube heat exchangers, air coolers, heat transfer coils, compact brazed, welded, gasketed plate units and packaged steam condensers. standard xchange heat exchangers provide cooling for many of the major turbine manufacturers in electrical power generation plants around the world. jabsco the jabsco brand is known for its marine, industrial, and hygienic/sanitary pumps and systems that are used in many industries, including marine, industrial, healthcare and food processing. it was founded in 1938 by the inventors of the flexible impeller pump. jabsco is a leader in the leisure marine market, with a broad range of products including water system, engine cooling pumps, searchlights and marine waste systems. jabsco also offers industrial pumps for hygienic applications, fluid transfer in chemical processing, laboratory, paint processing, plating, and construction. jabsco rotary lobe pumps offer outstanding performance with unique capabilities. jabsco hy-line and ultima rotary lobe pumps support food and dairy product production, healthcare, chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech applications, whether the product is thin, viscous or fragile. jabsco also offers multi-purpose and specialized flexible impeller, diaphragm and sliding vane pumps for chemical and general transfer applications. jabsco marine products can be found under the decks of millions of pleasure boats around the world. flojet established in 1975, the flojet brand encompasses a broad range of small pumps, motors and dispensing pumps for the beverage, industrial, recreational vehicle, marine and food processing markets. flojet is a leader in the small pump market, offering a versatile range of products serving the beverage market, including both air- and motor-operated diaphragm pumps and centrifugal chilling pumps, as well as booster systems and accumulator tanks. flojet's beverage pumps can be found in applications such as beer dispensing, syrup mixing for carbonated drinks, re-circulation in vending machines and refrigerators, bottled water dispensers, icemakers and coffee machines. in addition to significant beverage applications, flojet's electric and air-operated diaphragm pumps are utilized in street sweepers, car washes, carpet cleaners, parts washers, agricultural spraying and road rollers. flojet's positive displacement diaphragm pumps can be driven by air, electric motor or solenoid. the positive displacement diaphragm design of flojet pumps makes them ideal for use in conditions that require self-priming and dry running capability for short periods of time. additionally, the compact size of these pumps makes them very useful in tight spaces where one cannot ensure a flooded suction. flojet pumps are designed to be more efficient and are often the choice of customers for applications where low power consumption is critical. xylem services many of the world's leading beverage producers and during 2013 secured a large contract that will require 22 flojet beverage pumps per store for a large national restaurant chain. 12 geographic profile in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31, 2013 . revenue (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 1,434 38 % $ 1,400 37 % $ 1,363 36 % europe 1,387 36 % 1,338 35 % 1,422 37 % asia pacific 467 12 % 469 12 % 426 11 % other 549 14 % 584 16 % 592 16 % total $ 3,837 $ 3,791 $ 3,803 revenue derived from emerging markets comprised 19% , 20% and 19% of our revenue in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. the table below illustrates the property, plant &amp; equipment and percentage of property, plant &amp; equipment by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31, 2013 . property, plant &amp; equipment (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 186 38 % $ 183 38 % $ 178 38 % europe 225 46 % 219 45 % 209 45 % asia pacific 45 9 % 65 13 % 57 12 % other 32 7 % 20 4 % 19 5 % total $ 488 $ 487 $ 463 distribution, training and end use water infrastructure provides the majority of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both public utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing the need for this application expertise: (i) the increase in type and amount of contaminants in water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies due to rising energy costs, and (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce not systematically replaced at utilities. in the applied water segment, many end-use areas are widely different, so specialized distribution partners are often preferred. our commercial teams have built long-standing relationships around our brands in many of these industries through which we can continue to leverage new product and service applications. revenue opportunities are balanced between oem and after-market customers. our products in the applied water segment are sold through our global direct sales and strong indirect channels with the majority of revenue going through indirect channels. we have long-standing relationships with the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized training programs, to sell our products exclusively. 13 aftermarket parts and service we have many service centers around the world which employ service employees to provide aftermarket parts and services to our customers. during their lifecycle, installed products require maintenance, repair services and parts due to the harsh environments in which they operate. in addition, depending on the type of product, median lifecycles range from 5 years to over 50 years, at which time they must be replaced. many of our products are precisely selected and applied within a larger network of equipment driving a strong preference by customers and installers to replace them with the same exact brand and model when they reach the end of their lifecycle. this dynamic establishes a large recurring revenue stream for our business. supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, and asia. in addition, we maintain a global network of service centers providing after-market customer care. service centers offer an array of integrated service solutions for the industry including: preventive monitoring, contract maintenance, emergency field service, engineered upgrades, inventory management, and overhauls for pumps and other rotating equipment. we offer a wide range of highly engineered products. we primarily employ configure-to-order capabilities to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. when we provide a configure-to-order solution, we configure a standard product to our customers' specifications. to a lesser extent, we provide engineer-to-order products to meet the customization requirements of our customers. this process requires that we apply our technical expertise and production capabilities to provide a non-standard solution to the customer. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing immediately prior to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk. we attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global strategic sourcing initiative. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our water infrastructure and applied water segments experience some modest level of seasonality in its business. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as capital spending of customers as well as weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures, which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on the applicable market or on the company as a whole. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2013 , 2012 or 2011 revenue. backlog delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based upon their requirements. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $707 million at 14 december 31, 2013 and $647 million at december 31, 2012 . we anticipate that more than 90% of the backlog at december 31, 2013 will be recognized as revenue during 2014 . competition given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, water infrastructure competes with a large number of businesses. competition in the water transport and treatment technologies markets focuses on product performance, application expertise, design, quality, delivery, and price. in the sale of products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps and complementary products, which require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors within the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies (formerly siemans ag) and danaher corporation. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand names, application expertise, product delivery and performance, quality, and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has allowed us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors within the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair ltd. and franklin electric co., inc. research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key element of our engineering culture and is generally focused on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. our businesses invest substantial resources for r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and applications to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. we invested $104 million , $106 million , and $100 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, towards r&amp;d. we have engineering and research employees in technology centers around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient development process. we have a wastewater center of excellence in stockholm, sweden, with research, development and engineering employees. we have centers of excellence in india and china, where we are accelerating the customization of our application expertise to local needs. in the scale-up process, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities or at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets in each region of the world. we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications, and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 15 environmental matters and regulation our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and similar state agencies administer laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal, environmental remediation, and other aspects of environmental protection. such environmental laws and regulations in the united states include, for example, the federal clean air act, the clean water act, the resource, conservation and recovery act, and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. environmental requirements significantly affect our operations. we have established an internal program to address compliance with applicable environmental requirements and, as a result, management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. accruals for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. it can be difficult to estimate reliably the final costs of investigation and remediation due to various factors. our accrued liabilities for these environmental matters represent the best estimates related to the investigation and remediation of environmental media such as water, soil, soil vapor, air and structures, as well as related legal fees based upon the facts and circumstances as currently known to us. these estimates, and related accruals, are reviewed quarterly and updated for progress of investigation and remediation efforts and changes in facts and legal circumstances. liabilities for these environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated and combined financial position or results of operations. we cannot make assurances that other sites, or new details about sites known to us, that could give rise to environmental liabilities with such material adverse effects on us will not be identified in the future. at december 31, 2013 , we had estimated and accrued $8 million related to environmental matters. employees as of december 31, 2013 , xylem had more than 12,500 employees worldwide. we have over 3,700 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 17% are represented by labor unions, and in certain foreign countries some of our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. available information xylem's website address is www.xyleminc.com . we make available free of charge on or through www.investors.xyleminc.com our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference unless specifically stated therein. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room located at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may also obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. these reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 16 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to operational and external factors failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we provide products and services into competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive. we may not be able to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2013 , 38% and 36% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states and europe, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or downturn in these financial or macro-economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2013 , 62% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states. we expect our international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; changes in tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; and insurrection or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, we now conduct more of our operations in emerging markets than we have in the past, which could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of 17 any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products, higher business conduct risks, less qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable events might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, our pumps provided through our godwin brand are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology, flowtronex and lowara brands. fluctuations to warmer and cooler temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our b&amp;g brand. given the unpredictable nature of weather conditions, this may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by an increasing amount of short cycle, and book and bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. our historical growth has included acquisitions. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we cannot make assurances, however, that we will be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or 18 financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2013, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $2 billion. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks and trade names as of the acquisition date. we do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. in testing for impairment, we will make a qualitative assessment, and if we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test is required. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the periods recognized. our ability to successfully execute our organizational redesign as well as other restructuring and realignment actions could impact our business results. we initiated an organizational redesign during the fourth quarter of 2013, shifting from individually managed businesses to an integrated approach within geographical regions. we expect that this will enable us to leverage the breadth of the company's product and services portfolio to better serve our customers and address market opportunities as well as effectively utilize internal support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. the successful implementation and execution of this redesign, which is still in the process of being implemented, as well as our other restructuring and realignment actions, is critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace. other factors that may impede a successful implementation is retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. if the organizational redesign or restructuring and realignment actions are not executed successfully, the company's financial results could be adversely impacted. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in more than 150 countries and 62% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2013 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, our 19 ability to realize financial benefits from six sigma and lean projects may not be able to mitigate fully or in part these manufacturing and operating cost increases and, as a result, could negatively impact our profitability. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products that we make or sell can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any product liability claims. recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2013 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $1,241 million including our 3.55% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due september 2016 and 4.875% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due october 2021. we have an existing four year competitive advance and revolving credit facility (the credit facility ), which provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $600 million. we have a risk sharing finance facility agreement (the "r&amp;d facility agreement") with the european investment bank ("eib") in an aggregate principal amount of up to 120 million (approximately $165 million ). our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. also, regardless of the terms of our debt or equity financing, the amount of our stock that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our stock may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for itt under section 355(e) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and under the tax matters agreement entered into by itt in connection with the spin-off (the tax matters agreement ), we could be required to indemnify itt for that tax. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries considered to have a high risk of corruption. we are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws. we are subject, 20 however, to the risk that we or our affiliated entities or our representatives or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents, may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws or regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and others. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and also damage to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses, including acquisitions and divestitures. some of these proceedings seek remedies relating to environmental matters, intellectual property matters, product liability and personal injury claims, employment, labor and pension matters, and government and commercial or contract issues, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. additionally, we may receive fines or penalties or be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. our business could be adversely affected by interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. we also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, e.g. production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls, and perform business continuity planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, training and cultural benefits. we will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. 21 if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. the intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights laws are not highly developed or protected. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will continue to repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt-payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' 22 equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position or results of operations. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. 23 stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our second amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition part or all of our business operations. for example, the second amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, do not permit shareholders to convene special meetings and do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders, unless unanimous. in addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. risks related to our 2011 separation from itt corporation if the spin-off were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the internal revenue code, then we and/or our former parent and our stockholders could be subject to significant tax liability. in connection with the spin-off, we and our former parent, itt corporation, received an irs ruling (the irs ruling ) stating that itt and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off. in addition, itt received an opinion of tax counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the spin-off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the irs did not rule. the irs ruling, while generally binding upon the irs, was based on certain factual statements and representations. if any such factual statements or representations were incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the irs ruling were based were materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off, the irs could modify or revoke the irs ruling retroactively. as discussed above, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the irs ruling were addressed in the opinion of counsel. the opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs. accordingly, the irs may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. like the irs ruling, the opinion was based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter counsel's conclusions. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction because any of the factual statements or representations in the irs ruling or the legal opinion are incomplete or untrue, or because the facts upon which the irs ruling is based were materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off, itt would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under u.s. treasury regulations each member of the itt consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries), would be jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of any resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. notwithstanding the foregoing, the spin-off will be taxable to itt (but not to itt shareholders) pursuant to section 355(e) of the internal revenue code if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or itt, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. the tax liability resulting from the application of section 355(e) would be substantial. in addition, under u.s. treasury regulations, each member of the itt consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries) would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. we have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to itt, including under section 355(e). pursuant to the tax matters agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 among itt, exelis and xylem, we have also agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and itt and exelis have agreed to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions 24 entered into by itt or exelis. these obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. the spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the spin-off left us, itt and/or exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that we, itt and/or exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. among other things, the court could require the return of assets or our shares to itt, voiding the liens of xylem and claims against itt, or providing itt with a claim for money damages against us. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if either the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or it is unlikely to be able to pay its liabilities as they become due. no assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, itt or exelis were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off. the spin-off could also be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. under the indiana business corporation law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. no assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution of our shares in connection with the spin-off was unlawful. under the distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off, we will be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which we own and operate following the consummation of the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any of these or other obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the distribution agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by itt or exelis should itt or exelis fail to pay or perform its retained obligations (for example, tax, asbestos and/or environmental liabilities). in connection with our separation, itt and exelis will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis's indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt and exelis, itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign currency exchange and interest rates. these exposures are actively monitored by management. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is due to certain costs, revenue and borrowings being denominated in currencies other than one of our subsidiaries functional currency. similarly, we are exposed to market risk as the result of changes in interest rates which may affect the cost of our financing. it is our policy and practice to use derivative financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposures. foreign currency exchange rate risk our foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we may use derivative financial instruments to offset risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, when it is believed that the exposure will not be limited by our normal operating and financing activities. in january 2012, we began to enter into currency forward contracts periodically in order to manage the exchange rate fluctuation risk on certain intercompany transactions associated with third party sales and purchases. our principal currency exposures relate to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would not be material to xylem's financial position and results of operations. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2013 , we do not have a material exposure to interest rate risk as our debt portfolio entirely comprises long-term, fixed-rate instruments. we do not account for our long-term debt using the fair value option. commodity price exposures portions of our business are exposed to volatility in the prices of certain commodities, such as copper, nickel and aluminum, among others. our primary exposure to this volatility resides with the use of these materials in purchased component parts. we generally maintain long-term fixed price contracts on raw materials and component parts; however, we are prone to exposure as these contracts expire. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in prices for raw metal commodities would not be material to our financial position and results of operations. 52risk factors and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). all forward-looking statements made herein are based on information available to the company as of the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2014 revenue of $3.9 billion and approximately 12,500 employees, is a world leader in the design, manufacturing, and application of highly engineered technologies for the water industry. we are a leading equipment and service provider for water and wastewater applications with a broad portfolio of products and services addressing the full cycle of water, from collection, distribution and use to the return of water to the environment. we have leading market positions among equipment and service providers in the core application areas of the water equipment industry: transport, treatment, test, building services, industrial processing and irrigation. our company's brands, such as bell &amp; gossett and flygt, are well known throughout the industry and have served the water market for many years. we serve a global customer base across diverse end markets while offering localized expertise. we sell our products in more than 150 countries through a balanced distribution network consisting of our direct sales force and independent channel partners. in 2014 , 62% of our revenue was generated outside the united states, with 21% of revenue generated in emerging markets. 3 in 2014, we began implementing an organizational redesign to integrate our commercial teams within geographical regions. the integration of our commercial teams creates a cross-xylem sales and marketing organization, shifting from a dedicated product line organizational structure. this sales structure is largely in place in the company's europe, middle east, africa and asia regions and to a lesser extent in our other regions. while this organizational redesign did not change the company's reportable segments, it had implications on how the company manages the business, the most significant of which was the shift of certain responsibilities, namely customer and market-related activities, into the regional selling organizations. our industry our planet faces a serious water challenge. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and this percentage is declining due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and climate change. in addition, demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient clean water supply, existing infrastructure for water supply is aging and inadequately funded. in the united states, degrading pipe systems leak one out of every six gallons of water, on average, on its way from a treatment plant to the customer. these challenges are driving opportunities for growth in the global water industry, which we estimate to have a total market size of approximately $550 billion . we view these challenges through the lens of water productivity, water quality and resilience. water productivity refers to the more efficient delivery and use of clean water. water quality refers to the efficient and effective management of wastewater. resilience refers to the management of water-related risks and the resilience of water infrastructure. the company's customers often face all three of these challenges, ranging from inefficient aging water distribution networks (which require increases in water productivity ); energy-intensive or unreliable wastewater management systems (which require increases in water quality ); or exposure to natural disasters such as floods or droughts (which require increases in resilience ). delivering value in these areas creates significant opportunity for the company. the water industry supply chain is comprised of equipment and services companies, design and build service providers, and utilities. equipment and service providers serve distinct customer types. the utilities supply water through an infrastructure network. supply chain companies provide single, or sometimes combined, functions from equipment manufacturing and services to facility design (engineering, procurement and construction, or epc firms) to plant operations (utilities), as depicted below in figure 1. the utilities and epc customers are looking for technology and application expertise from their equipment and services providers to address trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. the end users of water consist of a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities and residential homes. these customers are predominately served through specialized distributors and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ). 4 figure 1: water industry supply chain our business focuses on the beginning of the supply chain by providing technology-intensive equipment and services. we sell our equipment and services via direct and indirect channels that serve the needs of each customer type. on the utility side, we provide the majority of our sales direct to customers with strong application expertise, with the remaining amount going through distribution partners. to end users of water, we provide the majority of our sales through long-standing relationships with the world's leading distributors, with the remainder going direct to customers. the equipment and services market addresses the key processes of the water industry, which are best illustrated through the cycle of water, as depicted in figure 2, below. we believe this industry has two distinct sectors within the cycle of water: water infrastructure and usage applications. the key processes of this cycle begin when raw water is extracted by pumps, which provide the necessary pressure and flow, to move or transport, this water from natural sources, such as oceans, groundwater, lakes and rivers, through pipes to treatment facilities. treatment facilities can provide many forms of treatment, such as filtration, disinfection and desalination, to remove solids, bacteria, and salt, respectively. throughout each of these stages, analytical instruments test the water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be utilized by end-use customers. a network of pipes and pumps again transports this clean water to where it is needed, such as to crops for irrigation, to power plants to provide cooling in industrial water, or to an apartment building as drinking water in residential and commercial buildings. after usage, the wastewater is collected by a separate network of pipes and pumps and transported to a wastewater treatment facility, where processes such as digestion deactivate and reduce the volume of solids, and disinfection purifies effluent water. once treated, analytical instruments test the water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be discharged back to the environment, thereby completing the cycle. 5 figure 2: cycle of water in the water infrastructure sector, two primary end markets exist: public utility and industrial. the public utility market comprises public, private and public-private institutions that handle water and wastewater for mostly residential and commercial purposes. the industrial market involves the supply of water and removal of wastewater for industrial facilities. we view the main macro drivers of this sector to be water quality, the desire for energy-efficient products, water scarcity, regulatory requirements and infrastructure needs, for both the repair of aging systems in developed countries as well as new installations in emerging markets. in the usage applications sector, end-use customers fall into four main markets: residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural. homeowners represent the end users in the residential market. owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, institutional buildings, restaurants, schools, hospitals and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market is wide ranging, involving oems, exploration and production firms, and developers and managers of facilities operated by electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage dispensing and food processing firms, and car washes. the agricultural market end users are owners and operators of businesses such as crop and livestock farms, aquaculture, golf courses, and other turf applications. we believe population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are the primary macro drivers of these markets, as these trends drive the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. water reuse and conservation are driving the need for new technologies. business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water productivity, quality and resilience challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: accelerate profitable growth. to achieve our goal of accelerating growth, we have identified the following five priorities: emerging market growth - we seek to accelerate our growth in priority emerging markets through increased focus on product localization and channel development. innovation - we seek to enhance the company's innovation efforts with increased focus on disruptive technologies that can significantly improve customers' water productivity, quality and resilience. 6 industry vertical marketing - we are strengthening vertical marketing capabilities for key end markets to bring the full breadth of the company's portfolio to bear on critical customer challenges. commercial team effectiveness - we continue to strengthen our regional commercial teams, including through the global adoption of improved commercial information technology tools, such as customer relationship management software. mergers and acquisitions - we continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, will act upon attractive acquisition candidates to accelerate our growth, including into new markets. build a continuous improvement culture. we seek to embed continuous improvement into our culture and simplify our organizational structure to make the company more agile, more profitable, and create room to re-invest in growth. to accomplish this, we will continue to strengthen our lean six sigma and global strategic sourcing capabilities, and continue to optimize our cost structure by eliminating unnecessary costs and inefficient overhead. build superior leadership and talent development . we seek to continue to invest in attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent with an increased focus on leadership and talent development programs. we will continue to align individual performance to the objectives of the company and its shareholders . build a culture of execution and accountability. we seek to ensure the impact of these strategic focus areas by holding our people accountable and streamlining our performance management and goal deployment systems. business segments we have two reportable business segments that are aligned with the cycle of water and the key strategic market applications they provide: water infrastructure (collection, distribution, return) and applied water (usage). see note 21 , segment and geographic data, in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2014 revenue (in millions) % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,779 73 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment test equipment controls flygt wedeco godwin wtw sanitaire ysi leopold treatment 348 14 % test 315 13 % $ 2,442 100 % applied water building services $ 781 53 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems goulds water technology bell &amp; gossett a-c fire pump standard xchange lowara jabsco flojet flowtronex industrial water 592 40 % irrigation 101 7 % $ 1,474 100 % 7 water infrastructure water infrastructure involves the process that collects water from a source and distributes it to users, and then returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment. within the water infrastructure segment, our pump systems transport water from oceans, groundwater, aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas. from there, our filtration, ultraviolet ("uv") and ozone systems provide treatment, making the water fit for use. after consumption, our pump lift stations move the wastewater to treatment facilities where our mixers, biological treatment, monitoring, and control systems provide the primary functions in the treatment process. throughout each of these stages, our analytical systems test to ensure quality of water for consumption as well as for its return to nature. water infrastructure serves its customers, public utilities and industrial applications, through three closely linked applications: transport, treatment and test of water and wastewater. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $20 billion. transport the transport application includes all of the equipment and services involved in the safe and efficient movement of water from sources such as oceans, groundwater, aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas to treatment facilities, and then to users. it also includes the movement of wastewater from the point of use to a treatment facility and then back into the environment. finally, the transport application also includes dewatering pumps, equipment and services which provide the safe removal or draining of groundwater and surface water from a riverbed, construction site or mine shaft. we offer a wide range of highly engineered products such as water and wastewater submersible pumps, monitoring controls, and application solutions; we do not serve the market for lower-value equipment such as pipes and fittings. we primarily employ configure-to-order capabilities to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. when we provide a configure-to-order solution, we configure a standard product to our customers' specifications. to a lesser extent, we provide engineer-to-order products to meet the customization requirements of our customers. this process requires that we apply our technical expertise and production capabilities to provide a non-standard solution to the customer. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. with operations on six continents, we also have one of the world's largest dewatering rental fleets, serviced with our flygt and godwin brands. in our water infrastructure segment, transport accounted for approximately 73% of our segment revenue in 2014 , 74% in 2013 and 73% in 2012 . flygt flygt is a world-leader in the design and manufacture of dry and submersible pumps and related intelligent controls systems. under the flygt banner, customers have access to a complete range of products and solutions for moving water, wastewater, and advanced monitoring and control equipment to optimize their use. founded in sweden in 1901, flygt is the originator of the reliable, energy-efficient electrical submersible pump. flygt products have applications in various markets, including wastewater lift stations, water and wastewater treatment facilities, pressurized sewage systems, oil and gas, steel, mining and leisure markets. customers include public utility and industrial water and wastewater systems operators. in 2012, xylem successfully launched flygt experior which brings together advanced controls, hydraulics and energy-efficient motor technology to deliver substantial energy savings. during 2014, we won a large contract to provide large custom-made flygt pumps for the xayaburi run-of-river hydropower dam in laos. the construction of the dam allows water to be kept within the river's course and minimally raises the water level to allow fish migration between the upper and lower mekong rivers, while providing electricity to about 1 million people in laos and 3 million people in thailand. godwin with more than 35 years as a leader in pump manufacturing and applications, godwin has established itself as a well-recognized, market leading brand in the global portable pump market. godwin manufactures, sells, rents and services its products. its quick response and 24/7 capabilities allow it to provide customized pumping solutions to meet the specific needs of its customers. founded in quenington, england, godwin is currently headquartered in bridgeport, new jersey. godwin's products include fully automatic self-priming dri-prime pumps, a full range of flygt electric submersible pumps, heidra hydraulic submersible pumps, wet-prime gasoline-powered contractor pumps and a broad line of generators and portable light towers, as well as a multitude of pumping accessories and pipe. godwin products are primarily used in construction, water &amp; wastewater transport, oil &amp; gas markets, hydraulic fracturing, industrial, mining, and municipal, as well as government, temporary fire protection, environmental, agriculture, and marine. godwin products are also instrumental in disaster relief efforts. after superstorm sandy hit the united states in october 2012, godwin's pumps were instrumental in minimizing or preventing flood damage in various flooded regions throughout the northeast. godwin's fleet of equipment is rented through 45 u.s. branches and a global network of distributors and xylem rental and sales facilities. 8 treatment the treatment application includes equipment and services that treat both water for consumption and wastewater to be returned responsibly to the environment. primary served markets include public utilities and industrial operations. while there are several treatment solutions in the market today, we focus on three basic treatment types: (i) filtration, (ii) disinfection systems and (iii) biological treatment systems. filtration uses gravity-based media filters and clarifiers to clean both water and wastewater. leopold, with more than 90 years of experience, is our leading filtration brand. disinfection systems, both uv and ozone oxidation, treat both public utility drinking water and wastewater, as well as industrial process water, and are provided through our wedeco brand. biological treatment systems are key to the treatment and mixing of solids in wastewater plants, which are provided through our sanitaire and flygt brands. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. in our water infrastructure segment, treatment accounted for approximately 14% of our segment revenue in both 2014 and 2013 , and 15% in 2012 . leopold founded in 1924 in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, leopold is a leader in rapid gravity media filtration and clarification solutions for the water and wastewater industry. in potable drinking water treatment plants, the clari-daf system is used to clarify raw water to remove contaminants such as turbidity, algae, color, iron/manganese, organics, and taste and odor compounds. several years ago, we augmented our filtration products with membrane technology. our filtration products include the rapid gravity media, membranes and reverse osmosis/ultrafine filtration. leopold gravity media filtration is used in potable water treatment plants to remove particulate in the final filtration step. in public utility wastewater treatment plants, the clarivac system is used in final clarifiers to remove the sludge solids. for those areas where nitrogen and phosphorus nutrient removal is required, we provide elimi-nite systems which convert the filters to become biologically active so that the effluent meets the mandated nitrate and phosphorus levels. in desalination systems, leopold clari-daf systems and filterworx systems are provided to remove contaminants that will harm reverse osmosis membranes, so that salt can be removed from the seawater to make it potable. primary customers are public utility water and wastewater systems, as well as desalination plant facilities. during 2014, leopold launched oxelia, which is a cutting-edge, ozone-enhanced biologically active filtration system and multi-barrier solution for municipal wastewater treatment. oxelia combines ozone, filtration and analytical instrumentation to deliver optimal wastewater treatment for water reuse, as well as discharge into sensitive water. wedeco wedeco was founded in 1975 in herford, germany to develop chemical-free and environmentally-friendly water treatment technologies, including uv light and ozone systems. there are more than 250,000 installed wedeco systems for uv disinfection and ozone oxidation globally in private, public utility and industrial locations. wedeco introduced ozone technology in 1988 and has been expanding internationally ever since. uv disinfection systems have a number of applications including water treatment and aquaculture. ozone disinfection systems have applications in drinking water, wastewater, process water, product polishing, bleaching, ozonolysis/synthesis and deodorization. customers include public utility wastewater and clean water treatment facilities, power plants, pulp and paper mills, food product manufacturers and aquaculture facilities. during 2014, we won a large contract with bahrain's ministry of works to upgrade a wastewater treatment facility in manama, the capital city of bahrain. the company will design, install and commission an expansion and upgrade of the existing wedeco ozone systems at the tubli water pollution control centre which will increase the capacity of the wastewater treatment facility from 200,000 to 240,000 cubic meters per day. the enhanced wastewater reuse capacity is necessary for irrigation purposes in the area and will benefit the local agriculture and horticulture sectors in particular. sanitaire launched in 1967, the sanitaire brand provides complete biological wastewater treatment solutions for public utility and industrial applications. sanitaire's comprehensive offering includes diffused aeration, sequencing batch reactors, drum filters and state-of-the-art controls that drive efficient operations. sanitaire is regarded as a leading brand in diffused aeration, which is a process that introduces air into a liquid, providing an aerobic environment for degradation of organic matter. fine-pore diffusion of air is highly competitive due to its high oxygen transfer efficiency and lower energy costs. sanitaire wide-band aeration systems are used in applications such as grit chambers and sludge that require non-clogging, maintenance-free systems. principal sanitaire customers are public utility and industrial wastewater treatment facilities. in 2013, xylem launched the sanitaire oscar process performance optimization system. when combined with sanitaire's advanced aeration system, xylem was able to deliver 65 percent energy savings to the operators of the sterno, sweden wastewater treatment plant. flygt flygt is also a world-leader in the design and manufacturing of submersible, jet and top-entry mixers. flygt has over 30 years of expertise in the area of wastewater treatment mixing, as well as over 100,000 applications globally. submersible mixers are often used in sewage treatment plants to keep solids in suspension in the various process tanks and/or sludge holding tanks. in 2013, xylem won an order to provide flygt submersible mixers for the 9 panama canal. the project includes four anti-sedimentation mixers at each lock gate of a new panama canal channel, as well as local electrical panels and accessories. test analytical instrumentation is used across most industries to ensure regulatory requirements are met. growth in this market is primarily driven by increasing regulation of water and wastewater in north america, europe and asia. our served market is predominately focused on water and the environment for quality levels throughout the water infrastructure loop. analytical systems are applied in three primary ways: in the field, in a facility laboratory, or real time, online monitoring in a treatment facility process. we believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. in our water infrastructure segment, test accounted for approximately 13% of our segment revenue in 2014 and 12% in both 2013 and 2012 . wtw in wastewater treatment facilities, wtw-branded systems monitor parameters such as dissolved oxygen, ph, and turbidity throughout the water process to ensure regulatory standards are met before water is discharged back into the environment. founded in 1945, as a major brand in europe, wtw has strong market penetration in the environmental, water and wastewater segments. wtw holds leading market positions in on-line instrumentation and manufactures premium positioned robust and reliable analysis products for the measurement of ph, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, total dissolved solids, turbidity, specific ions and biological oxygen demand. wtw's product offering includes meters, sensors, data-loggers, photometers and software providing customer solutions for even the most challenging applications. wtw instruments have been placed in major monitoring stations around the globe to monitor water quality. one of our largest installations is in the yangtze river station in china. ysi yellow springs instrument company ("ysi"), founded in 1948, develops and manufactures sensors, instruments, software and data collection platforms for environmental and coastal water quality monitoring and testing. ysi holds a leading market position in surface water monitoring and sampling which includes equipment that allows users to measure multiple parameters simultaneously, including conductivity, dissolved oxygen, temperature, turbidity, depth or level, chlorophyll, blue green algae and ph, among others, in a variety of applications. ysi's sontek division designs and manufactures acoustic doppler instruments which provide water velocity measurements for oceans, rivers, lakes, harbors, canals, estuaries and laboratories. ysi also offers life sciences products including biochemical analyzers for bioprocess monitoring, food and beverage processing, and sports physiology. ysi instruments have become integral across xylem as the technologies have enabled customers such as water treatment plants to meet their critical water and wastewater testing requirements while lowering energy costs and improving process efficiencies. the main market areas are water quality, environmental monitoring, aquaculture, life sciences and ocean research. ysi sensors played a critical role in monitoring water levels and providing other real-time data that helped track superstorm sandy which hit the mid-atlantic and northeast united states in october of 2012. applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water. since water is used to some degree in almost every aspect of human, economic and environmental activity, this segment has a significant number of potential applications and we participate in all major areas of water demand. irrigation applications constitute the majority of all water usage globally. examples of what we provide include: boosting systems for farming irrigation, pumps for dairy operations, and rainwater reuse systems for small scale crop and turf irrigation. industrial water applications account for the next largest amount of global water consumption. our pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls provide cooling to power plants and manufacturing facilities, as well as circulation for food and beverage processing. the remaining portion of global water use resides in human and building consumption, where we deliver water boosting systems for drinking, heating, ventilation and air conditioning ("hvac") and fire protection systems to residential and commercial building services. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $15 billion. residential &amp; commercial building services this business is defined by four main uses of water in building services applications, such as in residential homes and commercial buildings, including offices, hotels, hospitals, schools, restaurants and malls. the first application is in hvac, where bell &amp; gossett and lowara specialize in pumps and valves that are used in water-driven heating and cooling systems, along with heat exchangers, valves, and monitoring and control products that augment the system. the second is the supply of potable water for consumption, such as for drinking and hygiene. the goulds water technology and lowara brands provides pumps and boosting systems utilized within buildings, sourcing water from distribution networks or from wells. the third application is wastewater removal with sump and sewage pumps, provided by bell &amp; gossett, goulds water technology and lowara. the fourth water-related building service 10 area is fire protection, where our ac fire brand supplies full pump systems for emergency fire suppression. bell &amp; gossett, goulds water technology and lowara have continued to innovate, focusing on providing industry-leading energy-efficient and intelligent pumps for the building services market; many of these products are more efficient than competitive devices. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. in our applied water segment, building services accounted for approximately 53% of our segment revenue in 2014 , 50% in 2013 and 53% in 2012 . industrial water water is used in most industrial facilities to provide processing steps such as cooling, heating, cleaning and mixing. our goulds water technology and lowara brands supply vertical multistage pumps to bring in source water or to boost pressure for purposes such as circulating water through a manufacturing facility to cool machine tools. our standard xchange brand delivers heat exchangers for combined heat and power applications within power generation plants. we also service niche applications such as flexible impeller pumps for wine processing facilities served by our jabsco brand, and water-based detergent dispensing and water circulation within car washes served by flojet and goulds water technology air-operated diaphragm and end suction pumps. our boosting pumps are also increasingly being used in hydraulic fracturing applications. across all these various end applications, we believe our business is the second largest player in this served market based on management estimates. in our applied water segment, industrial water accounted for approximately 40% of our segment revenue in 2014 , 43% in 2013 and 40% in 2012 . irrigation the irrigation business consists of irrigation-related equipment and services associated with bringing water from a source to the plant or livestock need, including hoses, sprinklers, center pivot and drip irrigation. we focus on the pumps and boosting systems that supply this ancillary equipment with water. our goulds water technology brand brings mixed flow pumps, and our flowtronex group specializes in equipment "packaged solutions" incorporating monitoring and controls to optimize energy efficiency in irrigation delivery. our lowara brand also produces pumps for agriculture applications and irrigation of gardens and parks. we believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. in our applied water segment, irrigation accounted for approximately 7% of our segment revenue in each of 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . as described above, the following brands and products are used across the applications in our applied water segment: goulds water technology with origins dating back more than 150 years, goulds water technology is a leading brand of centrifugal and turbine pumps, controllers, variable frequency drives and accessories for residential and commercial water supply and wastewater applications. goulds water technology is a leader in the water technologies market with its line of residential water well pumps. the goulds water technology product portfolio includes submersible and line shaft turbine, 4 submersible, jet, sump, effluent, sewage and centrifugal pumps for residential, agriculture and irrigation, sewage and drainage, commercial and light industrial use. goulds water technology has various vertical configuration high pressure centrifugal pumps which are utilized for water boost, filtration and boiler feed applications in industrial environments. goulds water technology submersible, deepwell or other pumps can be found in more than a quarter of the existing 15 million household wells and more than 380,000 public and community wells in the united states. products for commercial wastewater include sewage, effluent and grinder pumps and packages. agriculture products include pump and control products for irrigation, stockwater, wash systems, cooling systems and waste management, with turf irrigation products, including submersible and surface pumps for landscape and turf irrigation systems. we serve the building trades market with filtration, chilling, pressure boost, wash system, water supply, wastewater and boiler feed applications. we also have a range of standard cast iron and bronze end-suction and multistage pumps for various commercial applications. in 2014, the company won a large project with a mining customer at the kinross fort knox gold mine in fairbanks, alaska, which will address the customer's water productivity needs. the project includes goulds water technology turbine pump assemblies with motors for the mine's barren booster pump supply, a process in which previously mined and processed ore is reprocessed through a leach field to pull more gold from the tailings. lowara founded in 1968 in vicenza, italy, lowara is a leader in stainless steel pump manufacturing technology for water technology applications. the lowara range of products includes submersible, sump, effluent, sewage, centrifugal pumps and booster packages for water supply and water pumping needs in the residential, agriculture, industrial, public utility, building service and commercial markets worldwide, with particular strength in europe. residential applications include pumps for pressurization, conditioning, fire-fighting systems, lifting stations and 11 dewatering. agriculture applications include pumps for irrigation of gardens and parks. industrial applications include drinking water, industrial washing equipment and machine tool cooling. the german water services company erftverband implemented a comprehensive system of lowara pumps and a hydrovar speed control smart system to address complex water management needs in korschenbroich and kaarst, germany during 2013. bell &amp; gossett founded in 1916 in chicago, illinois, bell &amp; gossett ("b&amp;g") is a leader in plumbing and water-based heating and air conditioning markets. products are used in residential applications where single- or multi-family homes are heated with hot water or steam. key products include circulating pumps, valves, and specialty products used in these systems. b&amp;g also sells wastewater pumps for commercial and residential applications. in commercial applications, b&amp;g provides a broad range of products, including a wide variety of pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls for heating and air-conditioning systems, sump pumps for wastewater systems, condensate pumping systems for steam heating systems and a comprehensive line of energy-saving variable speed controls. training is provided for building system design engineers at b&amp;g's industry renowned little red schoolhouse in morton grove, illinois which has educated more than 60,000 engineers. key commercial building types include hospitals, schools, institutional buildings and data centers. b&amp;g products are sold globally by independent manufacturer representatives and distributed locally by hvac wholesalers. during 2014, the b&amp;g brand series e-1510 single stage end suction centrifugal pump won the consulting-specifying engineer 's product of the year award, the premier award for new products in the hvac, fire/life safety, electrical and plumbing systems engineering markets. a-c fire pump allis-chalmers company ("a-c fire pump") was founded in the 1840s in milwaukee, wisconsin. it offers turnkey fire pump systems for commercial, residential and industrial applications. a-c fire pump designs and custom-builds a wide range of fire pump systems, including prefabricated packages and house units that meet every fire protection need. a-c fire pump products include in-line pumps, vertical turbine, package systems, split case (various series) and 13d home defender for residential fire pump service. the 13d home defender is designed to boost water pressure for automatic residential sprinkler systems. in addition to residential applications, turnkey fire pumping systems from a-c fire pump protect an increasing number of petrochemical facilities, commercial buildings and factories around the world. during 2014, we secured a large project in bolivia to meet an energy customer's water resilience needs by providing customized diesel-driven split case a-c fire pumps that will protect gas treatment plants, connecting pipelines and the base camp where workers reside. flowtronex flowtronex, founded in 1974 as pumping systems, inc., began by producing some of the golf industry's first prefabricated water pumping systems. the silent storm package and pace integrated pump controller are our two primary products sold into the golf market. in landscape, flowtronex products, primarily the floboy system, are sold to customers such as cities and nurseries. in golf, flowtronex products are sold to golf course superintendents through our toro distribution partnership. retrofit sales of golf pumping systems are sold through our flownet service network, a group of factory authorized service technicians that provide set up and start up, and service and repair of flowtronex pump stations. during 2014, we launched the oasis ex, a new pump controller which delivers modern features, such as remote monitoring, web-enabled controls and advanced water measurements, to maximize water and energy efficiency in pump stations, while also reducing operating costs and increasing productivity. standard xchange since 1917, standard xchange has been the leader in the design and manufacture of shell and tube heat exchangers. standard xchange is the brand of our complete line of heat transfer products used in industrial and process applications such as heating or cooling liquids or gases, heat recovery in chemical processing, power and co-generation, paper and pulp, oems and commercial marine markets. products include basic shell-and-tube heat exchangers, air coolers, heat transfer coils, compact brazed, welded, gasketed plate units and packaged steam condensers. standard xchange heat exchangers provide cooling for many of the major turbine manufacturers in electrical power generation plants around the world. jabsco the jabsco brand is known for its marine, industrial, and hygienic/sanitary pumps and systems that are used in many industries, including marine, industrial, healthcare and food processing. it was founded in 1938 by the inventors of the flexible impeller pump. jabsco is a leader in the leisure marine market, with a broad range of products including water system, engine cooling pumps, searchlights and marine waste systems. jabsco also offers industrial pumps for hygienic applications, fluid transfer in chemical processing, laboratory, paint processing, plating, and construction. jabsco rotary lobe pumps offer outstanding performance with unique capabilities. jabsco hy-line and ultima rotary lobe pumps support food and dairy product production, healthcare, chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech applications, whether the product is thin, viscous or fragile. jabsco also offers multi-purpose and specialized flexible impeller, diaphragm and sliding vane pumps for chemical and general transfer applications. jabsco marine products can be found under the decks of millions of pleasure boats around the world. 12 flojet established in 1975, the flojet brand encompasses a broad range of small pumps, motors and dispensing pumps for the beverage, industrial, recreational vehicle, marine and food processing markets. flojet is a leader in the small pump market, offering a versatile range of products serving the beverage market, including both air- and motor-operated diaphragm pumps and centrifugal chilling pumps, as well as booster systems and accumulator tanks. flojet's beverage pumps can be found in applications such as beer dispensing, syrup mixing for carbonated drinks, re-circulation in vending machines and refrigerators, bottled water dispensers, icemakers and coffee machines. in addition to significant beverage applications, flojet's electric and air-operated diaphragm pumps are utilized in street sweepers, car washes, carpet cleaners, parts washers, agricultural spraying and road rollers. flojet's positive displacement diaphragm pumps can be driven by air, electric motor or solenoid. the positive displacement diaphragm design of flojet pumps makes them ideal for use in conditions that require self-priming and dry running capability for short periods of time. additionally, the compact size of these pumps makes them very useful in tight spaces where one cannot ensure a flooded suction. flojet pumps are designed to be more efficient and are often the choice of customers for applications where low power consumption is critical. xylem services many of the world's leading beverage producers. during 2014, the company launched filtration by flojet , which is a system that uses integrated membrane pre-activated carbon technology to improve water taste and appearance, better protect dispense equipment and mitigate health concerns in food-service applications. geographic profile the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31, 2014 . revenue (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 1,477 38 % $ 1,434 38 % $ 1,400 37 % europe 1,379 35 % 1,387 36 % 1,338 35 % asia pacific 478 12 % 467 12 % 469 12 % other 582 15 % 549 14 % 584 16 % total $ 3,916 $ 3,837 $ 3,791 in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. revenue derived from emerging markets comprised 21% , 19% and 20% of our revenue in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the table below illustrates the property, plant &amp; equipment and percentage of property, plant &amp; equipment by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31, 2014 . property, plant &amp; equipment (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 180 39 % $ 186 38 % $ 183 38 % europe 206 45 % 225 46 % 219 45 % asia pacific 53 11 % 45 9 % 65 13 % other 22 5 % 32 7 % 20 4 % total $ 461 $ 488 $ 487 distribution, training and end use water infrastructure provides the majority of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both public utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing the need for this application expertise: (i) the increase in type and amount of contaminants in water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies to optimize energy costs, and (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce not systematically replaced at utilities. 13 in the applied water segment, many end-use areas are widely different, so specialized distribution partners are often preferred. our commercial teams have built long-standing relationships around our brands in many of these industries through which we can continue to leverage new product and service applications. revenue opportunities are balanced between oems and after-market customers. our products in the applied water segment are sold through our global direct sales and strong indirect channels with the majority of revenue going through indirect channels. we have long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized loyalty and training programs. aftermarket parts and service during their lifecycle, installed products require maintenance, repair services and parts due to the harsh environments in which they operate. we have many service centers around the world, which employ service employees to provide aftermarket parts and services to our large installed base of customers. service centers offer an array of integrated service solutions for the industry including: preventive monitoring, contract maintenance, emergency field service, engineered upgrades, inventory management, and overhauls for pumps and other rotating equipment. depending on the type of product, median lifecycles range from five years to over 50 years, at which time they must be replaced. many of our products are precisely selected and applied within a larger network of equipment driving a strong preference by customers and installers to replace them with the same exact brand and model when they reach the end of their lifecycle. this dynamic establishes a large recurring revenue stream for our business. supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, and asia. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by striving to take delivery of the inventory and manufacturing as close as possible to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk. we attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global strategic sourcing initiative. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our water infrastructure and applied water segments experience some modest level of seasonality in its business. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as capital spending of customers as well as weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts, and fluctuations in temperatures, which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our water infrastructure or applied water segments or on the company as a whole. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2014 , 2013 or 2012 revenue. backlog delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based upon their requirements. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $740 million at december 31, 2014 and $707 million at december 31, 2013 . we anticipate that more than 85% of the backlog at december 31, 2014 will be recognized as revenue during 2015 . 14 competition given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, the water infrastructure segment competes with a large number of businesses. competition in the water transport and treatment technologies markets focuses on product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. in the sale of products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps and complementary products, which require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors within the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies (formerly siemens ag) and danaher corporation. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand equity, application expertise, product delivery and performance, quality, and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has allowed us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors within the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair ltd. and franklin electric co., inc. research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key element of our engineering culture and is generally focused on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. our businesses invest substantial resources for r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and applications to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. we invested $104 million , $104 million , and $106 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, in r&amp;d. we have engineering and research employees in technology centers around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient development process. we have a center of excellence in stockholm, sweden, with research, development and engineering employees. we have centers of excellence in india and china, where we are accelerating the customization of our application expertise to local needs. in the scale-up process, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities or at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets in each region of the world. intellectual property we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications, and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 15 environmental matters and regulation our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and similar state agencies administer laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal, environmental remediation, and other aspects of environmental protection. such environmental laws and regulations in the united states include, for example, the federal clean air act, the clean water act, the resource, conservation and recovery act, and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. environmental requirements significantly affect our operations. we have established an internal program to address compliance with applicable environmental requirements and, as a result, management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. accruals for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. it can be difficult to estimate reliably the final costs of investigation and remediation due to various factors. our accrued liabilities for these environmental matters represent the best estimates related to the investigation and remediation of environmental media such as water, soil, soil vapor, air and structures, as well as related legal fees based upon the facts and circumstances as currently known to us. these estimates, and related accruals, are reviewed quarterly and updated for progress of investigation and remediation efforts and changes in facts and legal circumstances. liabilities for these environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. we cannot make assurances that other sites, or new details about sites known to us, that could give rise to environmental liabilities with such material adverse effects on us will not be identified in the future. at december 31, 2014 , we had estimated and accrued $5 million related to environmental matters. employees as of december 31, 2014 , xylem had approximately 12,500 employees worldwide. we have more than 3,700 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 17% are represented by labor unions, and in certain foreign countries, some of our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. company history and certain relationships on october 31, 2011 (the "distribution date"), itt completed the spin-off (the spin-off ) of xylem, formerly itt's water equipment and services businesses ("waterco"). the spin-off was completed pursuant to the distribution agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 (the distribution agreement ), among itt, exelis inc. ( exelis ) and xylem. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website www.xyleminc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room located at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may also obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. these reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 16 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to operational and external factors failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we provide products and services into competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive. we may not be able to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2014 , 38% , 35% and 21% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states, europe and emerging markets, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or downturn in these financial or macro-economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2014 , 62% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states, with 21% of total revenue generated in emerging markets. we expect our international operations sales and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. we have placed a particular emphasis on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject, in varying degrees, to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; changes in tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; and insurrection or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, we now conduct more of our operations in emerging markets than we have in the past, which could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on 17 remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products, higher business conduct risks, less qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable events might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. there has been an increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity in recent years, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable laws, including anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we conduct approximately 62% of our business in various locations outside the united states. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, polish zloty, and hungarian forint. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, british pound, chinese yuan, swedish krona and canadian dollar. as the u.s. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted. refer to item 7a "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. 18 weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, our pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology, flowtronex and lowara brands. fluctuations to warmer and cooler temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our b&amp;g brand. given the unpredictable nature of weather conditions, this may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by an increasing amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. our historical growth has included acquisitions. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we cannot make assurances, however, that we will be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2014 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $2 billion . the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks and trade names as of the acquisition date. we do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. in testing for impairment, we will make a qualitative assessment, and if we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test is required. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the periods recognized. 19 our ability to successfully execute our organizational redesign as well as other restructuring and realignment actions could impact our business results. we initiated an organizational redesign during the fourth quarter of 2013, shifting from individually managed businesses to an integrated approach within geographical regions. we expect that this will enable us to leverage the breadth of the company's product and services portfolio to better serve our customers and address market opportunities as well as effectively utilize internal support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. the successful implementation and execution of this redesign as well as our other restructuring and realignment actions, is critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace. other factors that may impede a successful implementation is retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. if the organizational redesign or restructuring and realignment actions are not executed successfully, the company's financial results could be adversely impacted. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in more than 150 countries and 62% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2014 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, our ability to realize financial benefits from lean six sigma projects may not be able to mitigate fully or in part these manufacturing and operating cost increases and, as a result, could negatively impact our profitability. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products that we make or sell can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any product liability claims. recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2014 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $1,288 million , including our 3.55% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due september 2016 and 4.875% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due october 2021. we have an existing four year competitive advance and revolving credit facility (the credit facility ), which provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $600 million. we have a risk sharing finance facility agreement (the "r&amp;d facility agreement") with the european investment bank ("eib") in an aggregate principal amount of up to 120 million (approximately $146 million ). 20 our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and also damage to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses, including acquisitions and divestitures. some of these proceedings seek remedies relating to environmental matters, intellectual property matters, product liability and personal injury claims, employment, labor and pension matters, and government and commercial or contract issues, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. additionally, we may receive fines or penalties or be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. our business could be adversely affected by interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations or cybersecurity threats. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our systems or our third party vendors' systems and applications, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. we also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, e.g. production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls, and perform business continuity planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. 21 failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, training and cultural benefits. we will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. the intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights laws are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will continue to repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. 22 the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position or results of operations. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; 23 natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our third amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition part or all of our business operations. for example, the third amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations and do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders, unless unanimous. in addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. risks related to our 2011 spin-off from itt corporation the spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. the spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the spin-off left us, itt and/or exelis insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that we, itt and/or exelis intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature and that itt did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the spin-off. if a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. in connection with our spin-off, itt and exelis will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis's indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt and exelis, itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.risk factors and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). all forward-looking statements made herein are based on information available to the company as of the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2015 revenue of $3.7 billion and approximately 12,700 employees, is a world leader in the design, manufacturing, and application of highly engineered technologies for the water industry. we are a leading equipment and service provider for water and wastewater applications with a broad portfolio of products and services addressing the full cycle of water, from collection, distribution and use to the return of water to the environment. we have leading market positions among equipment and service providers in the core application areas of the water equipment industry: transport, treatment, test, building services, industrial processing and irrigation. our company's brands, such as bell &amp; gossett and flygt, are well known throughout the industry and have served the water market for many years. we serve a global customer base across diverse end markets while offering localized expertise. we sell our products in approximately 150 countries through a balanced distribution network consisting of our direct sales force and independent channel partners. in 2015 , 59% of our revenue was generated outside the united states, with 21% of revenue generated in emerging markets. 3 our industry our planet faces a serious water challenge. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and this percentage is declining due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and climate change. in addition, demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient clean water supply, existing infrastructure for water supply is aging and inadequately funded. in the united states, degrading pipe systems leak one out of every six gallons of water, on average, on its way from a treatment plant to the customer. these challenges are driving opportunities for growth in the global water industry, which we estimate to have a total market size of approximately $550 billion . we estimate our total served market size to be approximately $37 billion. we view these challenges through the lens of water productivity, water quality and resilience. water productivity refers to the more efficient delivery and use of clean water. water quality refers to the efficient and effective management of wastewater. resilience refers to the management of water-related risks and the resilience of water infrastructure. the company's customers often face all three of these challenges, ranging from inefficient aging water distribution networks (which require increases in water productivity ); energy-intensive or unreliable wastewater management systems (which require increases in water quality ); or exposure to natural disasters such as floods or droughts (which require increases in resilience ). delivering value in these areas creates significant opportunity for the company. the water industry supply chain is comprised of equipment and services companies, design and build service providers, and utilities. equipment and service providers serve distinct customer types. the utilities supply water through an infrastructure network. supply chain companies provide single, or sometimes combined, functions from equipment manufacturing and services to facility design (engineering, procurement and construction, or epc firms) to plant operations (utilities), as depicted below in figure 1. the utilities and epc customers are looking for technology and application expertise from their equipment and services providers to address trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. the end users of water consist of a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities and residential homes. these customers are predominately served through specialized distributors and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ). figure 1: water industry supply chain our business focuses on the beginning of the supply chain by providing technology-intensive equipment and services. we sell our equipment and services via direct and indirect channels that serve the needs of each customer type. on the utility side, we provide the majority of our sales direct to customers with strong application expertise, with the remaining amount going through distribution partners. to end users of water, we provide the majority of our sales through long-standing relationships with the world's leading distributors, with the remainder going direct to customers. 4 the equipment and services market addresses the key processes of the water industry, which are best illustrated through the cycle of water, as depicted in figure 2, below. we believe this industry has two distinct sectors within the cycle of water: water infrastructure and usage applications. the key processes of this cycle begin when raw water is extracted by pumps, which provide the necessary pressure and flow, to move or transport, this water from natural sources, such as oceans, groundwater, lakes and rivers, through pipes to treatment facilities. treatment facilities can provide many forms of treatment, such as filtration, disinfection and desalination, to remove solids, bacteria, and salt, respectively. throughout each of these stages, analytical instruments test the water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be utilized by end-use customers. a network of pipes and pumps again transports this clean water to where it is needed, such as to crops for irrigation, to power plants to provide cooling in industrial water, or to an apartment building as drinking water in residential and commercial buildings. after usage, the wastewater is collected by a separate network of pipes and pumps and transported to a wastewater treatment facility, where processes such as digestion deactivate and reduce the volume of solids, and disinfection purifies effluent water. once treated, analytical instruments test the water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be discharged back to the environment, thereby completing the cycle. figure 2: cycle of water in the water infrastructure sector, two primary end markets exist: public utility and industrial. the public utility market comprises public, private and public-private institutions that handle water and wastewater for mostly residential and commercial purposes. the industrial market involves the supply of water and removal of wastewater for industrial facilities. we view the main macro drivers of this sector to be water quality, the desire for energy-efficient products, water scarcity, regulatory requirements and infrastructure needs, for both the repair of aging systems in developed countries as well as new installations in emerging markets. in the usage applications sector, end-use customers fall into four main markets: residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural. homeowners represent the end users in the residential market. owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, institutional buildings, restaurants, schools, hospitals and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market is wide ranging, involving oems, exploration and production firms, and developers and managers of facilities operated by electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage dispensing and food processing firms, and car washes. the agricultural market end users are owners and operators of businesses such as crop and livestock farms, aquaculture, golf courses, and other turf applications. we believe population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are the primary macro drivers of these markets, as these trends drive the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. water reuse and conservation are driving the need for new technologies. 5 business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water productivity, quality and resilience challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: accelerate profitable growth. to achieve our goal of accelerating growth, we have identified the following five priorities: emerging markets - we seek to accelerate our growth in priority emerging markets through increased focus on product localization and channel development. innovation &amp; technology - we seek to enhance the company's innovation efforts with increased focus on technologies and innovation that can significantly improve customers' water productivity, quality and resilience. commercial leadership - we are strengthening our capabilities by focusing on simplifying our commercial processes along with the supporting backend information technology systems. mergers and acquisitions - we continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, will act upon attractive acquisition candidates to accelerate our growth, including into new markets. drive continuous improvement. we seek to embed continuous improvement into our culture and simplify our organizational structure to make the company more agile, more profitable, and create room to re-invest in growth. to accomplish this, we will continue to strengthen our lean six sigma and global procurement capabilities, and continue to optimize our cost structure through business simplification by eliminating structural, process and product complexity. leadership and talent development . we seek to continue to invest in attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent with an increased focus on leadership and talent development programs. we will continue to align individual performance to the objectives of the company and its shareholders . focus on execution and accountability. we seek to ensure the impact of these strategic focus areas by holding our people accountable and streamlining our performance management and goal deployment systems. 6 business segments we have two reportable business segments that are aligned with the cycle of water and the key strategic market applications they provide: water infrastructure (collection, distribution, return) and applied water (usage). see note 20 , segment and geographic data, in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2015 revenue (in millions) % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,624 73 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment test equipment controls flygt wedeco godwin wtw sanitaire ysi leopold treatment 316 14 % test 291 13 % $ 2,231 100 % applied water building services $ 774 54 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems goulds water technology bell &amp; gossett a-c fire pump standard xchange lowara jabsco flojet flowtronex industrial water 562 40 % irrigation 86 6 % $ 1,422 100 % water infrastructure water infrastructure involves the process that collects water from a source and distributes it to users, and then returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment. within the water infrastructure segment, our pump systems transport water from oceans, groundwater, aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas. from there, our filtration, ultraviolet ("uv") and ozone systems provide treatment, making the water fit for use. after consumption, our pump lift stations move the wastewater to treatment facilities where our mixers, biological treatment, monitoring, and control systems provide the primary functions in the treatment process. throughout each of these stages, our analytical systems test the quality of water for consumption as well as for its return to nature. water infrastructure serves its customers, public utilities and industrial applications, through three closely linked applications: transport, treatment and test of water and wastewater. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $21 billion. transport the transport application includes all of the equipment and services involved in the safe and efficient movement of water from sources such as oceans, groundwater, aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas to treatment facilities, and then to users. it also includes the movement of wastewater from the point of use to a treatment facility and then back into the environment. finally, the transport application also includes dewatering pumps, equipment and services which provide the safe removal or draining of groundwater and surface water from a riverbed, construction site or mine shaft and bypass pumping for the repair of aging public utility infrastructure, as well as emergency water removal during severe weather events. we offer a wide range of highly engineered products such as water and wastewater submersible pumps, monitoring controls, and application solutions; we do not serve the market for lower-value equipment such as pipes and fittings. we primarily employ configure-to-order capabilities to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. when we provide a configure-to-order solution, we configure a standard product to our customers' specifications. to a lesser extent, we provide engineer-to-order products to meet the customization requirements of our customers. this process requires that we apply our technical expertise and production capabilities to provide a non-standard solution to the customer. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. with operations on six continents, we also have one of the world's largest dewatering rental fleets. our key brands for this application are flygt and godwin. transport accounted for approximately 73% of our water infrastructure segment revenue in both 2015 and 2014 , and 74% in 2013 . 7 treatment the treatment application includes equipment and services that treat both water for consumption and wastewater to be returned responsibly to the environment or reused. primary served markets include public utilities and industrial operations. while there are several treatment solutions in the market today, we focus on three basic treatment types: (i) filtration systems, (ii) disinfection systems, (iii) biological treatment systems, including mixers. our key brands for this application are leopold, wedeco, sanitaire and flygt. filtration uses gravity-based media filters and clarifiers to clean both water and wastewater. leopold, has been a worldwide leader in filtration for over 90 years. wedeco offers chemical-free and environmentally friendly disinfection systems, both uv and ozone oxidation, to treat public utility drinking water, wastewater and industrial process water. biological treatment systems are key to the treatment and mixing of solids in wastewater plants, which are provided through our sanitaire and flygt brands. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. treatment accounted for approximately 14% of our water infrastructure segment revenue in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . test analytical instrumentation is used across most industries to ensure regulatory requirements are met. growth in this market is primarily driven by increasing regulation of water and wastewater in north america, europe and asia. our served market is predominately focused on water and the environment for quality levels throughout the water infrastructure loop. analytical systems are applied in three primary ways: in the field, in a facility laboratory, or real time, online monitoring in a treatment facility process. we believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. our key brands for this application are wtw and ysi. test accounted for approximately 13% of our water infrastructure segment revenue in both 2015 and 2014 , and 12% in 2013 . applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water. since water is used to some degree in almost every aspect of human, economic and environmental activity, this segment has a significant number of applications and we participate in all major areas of water demand. residential and commercial building services account for human and building consumption, where we deliver water boosting systems for drinking, heating, ventilation and air conditioning ("hvac") and fire protection systems. industrial water applications account for water consumption activities that use pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls to provide cooling to power plants and manufacturing facilities, as well as circulation for food and beverage processing. the remaining portion of global water use resides in irrigation applications. examples of what we provide include: boosting systems for farming irrigation, pumps for dairy operations, and rainwater reuse systems for small scale crop and turf irrigation.we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $16 billion. residential &amp; commercial building services this business is defined by four primary uses of water in building services applications, such as in residential homes and commercial buildings, including offices, hotels, hospitals, schools, restaurants and malls. the first application is in hvac, where bell &amp; gossett and lowara specialize in pumps and valves that are used in water-driven heating and cooling systems, along with heat exchangers, valves, and monitoring and control products that augment the system. the second is the supply of potable water for consumption, including drinking water and for hygienic purposes . the goulds water technology, lowara and bell &amp; gossett brands provide pumps and boosting systems utilized within buildings, sourcing water from distribution networks or from wells. the third application is wastewater removal with sump and sewage pumps, provided by bell &amp; gossett, goulds water technology and lowara. the fourth water-related building service area is fire protection, where our a-c fire pump brand supplies full pump systems for emergency fire suppression. bell &amp; gossett, goulds water technology and lowara have continued to innovate, focusing on providing industry-leading energy-efficient and intelligent pumps for the building services market; many of these products are more efficient than competitive devices. we believe our business is one of the largest players in this served market based on management estimates. building services accounted for approximately 54% of our applied water segment revenue in 2015 , 53% in 2014 and 50% in 2013 . industrial water water is used in most industrial facilities to provide processing steps such as cooling, heating, cleaning and mixing. our goulds water technology and lowara brands supply vertical multistage pumps to bring in source water or to boost pressure for purposes, including water circulation through a manufacturing facility to cool machine tools. our standard xchange brand delivers heat exchangers for combined heat and power applications within power generation plants. we also service niche applications such as wine processing with jabsco brand flexible impeller pumps, and water-based detergent dispensing and water circulation for car washes served by flojet air-operated 8 diaphragm and goulds water technology end suction pumps. our boosting pumps are also increasingly being used in hydraulic fracturing applications. we can support mines throughout exploration, development and operation. our wide range of durable pumps ensures reliability that minimizes risks, maximizes uptime and delivers superior total cost of ownership. across all these various end applications, we believe our business is the second largest player in this served market based on management estimates. industrial water accounted for approximately 40% of our applied water segment revenue in 2015 and 2014 , and 43% in 2013 . irrigation the irrigation business consists of irrigation-related equipment and services associated with bringing water from a source to a production plant or livestock facility, including hoses, sprinklers, center pivot and drip irrigation systems. we focus on the pumps and boosting systems that supply this ancillary equipment with water. our goulds water technology brand brings mixed flow pumps, and our flowtronex group specializes in equipment "packaged solutions" incorporating monitoring and controls to optimize energy efficiency in irrigation delivery. our lowara brand also produces pumps for agricultural applications and irrigation for gardens and parks. we believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. irrigation accounted for approximately 6% of our applied water segment revenue in 2015 , and 7% in 2014 and 2013 . geographic profile the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. revenue (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 1,490 41 % $ 1,477 38 % $ 1,434 38 % europe 1,179 32 % 1,379 35 % 1,387 36 % asia pacific 482 13 % 478 12 % 467 12 % other 502 14 % 582 15 % 549 14 % total $ 3,653 $ 3,916 $ 3,837 in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. revenue derived from emerging markets comprised 21% , 21% and 19% of our revenue in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. the table below illustrates the property, plant &amp; equipment and percentage of property, plant &amp; equipment by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. property, plant &amp; equipment (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 168 38 % $ 180 39 % $ 186 38 % europe 189 43 % 206 45 % 225 46 % asia pacific 56 13 % 53 11 % 45 9 % other 26 6 % 22 5 % 32 7 % total $ 439 $ 461 $ 488 distribution, training and end use water infrastructure provides the majority of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both public utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing the need for this application expertise: (i) the increase in type and amount of contaminants in water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies to optimize energy costs, (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce not systematically replaced at utilities and other end user customers, and (v) the build-out of water infrastructure in the emerging markets. in the applied water segment, many end-use areas are widely different, so specialized distribution partners are often preferred. our commercial teams have built long-standing relationships around our brands in many of these industries through which we can continue to leverage new product and service applications. revenue opportunities are balanced between oems and after-market customers. our products in the applied water segment are sold 9 through our global direct sales and strong indirect channels with the majority of revenue going through indirect channels. we have long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized loyalty and training programs. aftermarket parts and service during their lifecycle, installed products require maintenance, repair services and parts due to the harsh environments in which they operate. we have many service centers around the world, which employ service employees to provide aftermarket parts and services to our large installed base of customers. service centers offer an array of integrated service solutions for the industry including: preventive monitoring, contract maintenance, emergency field service, engineered upgrades, inventory management, and overhauls for pumps and other rotating equipment. depending on the type of product, median lifecycles range from five years to over 50 years, at which time they must be replaced. many of our products are precisely selected and applied within a larger network of equipment driving a strong preference by customers and installers to replace them with the same exact brand and model when they reach the end of their lifecycle. this dynamic establishes a large recurring revenue stream for our business. supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, and asia. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by striving to take delivery of the inventory and manufacturing as close as possible to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk. we attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global procurement initiative. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our water infrastructure and applied water segments experience some modest level of seasonality in its business. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as capital spending of customers as well as weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts, and fluctuations in temperatures, which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our water infrastructure or applied water segments or on the company as a whole. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2015 , 2014 or 2013 revenue. backlog delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based upon their requirements. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $716 million at december 31, 2015 and $740 million at december 31, 2014 . we anticipate that more than 81% of the backlog at december 31, 2015 will be recognized as revenue during 2016 . competition given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, the water infrastructure segment competes with a large number of businesses. competition in the water transport and treatment technologies markets focuses on product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. in the sale of products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps and complementary products, which require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important 10 customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors within the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies and danaher corporation. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand equity, application expertise, product delivery and performance, quality, and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has allowed us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors within the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair ltd. and franklin electric co., inc. research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key foundation of our growth strategy and we focus on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development as well as improvement of existing products to increase customer value. our businesses invest substantial resources for r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and applications to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. we invested $95 million , $104 million , and $104 million in r&amp;d in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. we have r&amp;d and product development capabilities around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient and robust development process. we have several global technical centers and local development teams around the world where we are supporting global needs and accelerating the customization of our application expertise to local needs. in some cases, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities and at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets in each region of the world. intellectual property we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications, and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. environmental matters and regulation our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and similar state agencies administer laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal, environmental remediation, and other aspects of environmental protection. such environmental laws and regulations in the united states include, for example, the federal clean air act, the clean water act, the resource, conservation and recovery act, and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. environmental requirements significantly affect our operations. we have established an internal program to address compliance with applicable environmental requirements and, as a result, management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. 11 accruals for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. it can be difficult to estimate reliably the final costs of investigation and remediation due to various factors. our accrued liabilities for these environmental matters represent the best estimates related to the investigation and remediation of environmental media such as water, soil, soil vapor, air and structures, as well as related legal fees based upon the facts and circumstances as currently known to us. these estimates, and related accruals, are reviewed quarterly and updated for progress of investigation and remediation efforts and changes in facts and legal circumstances. liabilities for these environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. we cannot make assurances that other sites, or new details about sites known to us, that could give rise to environmental liabilities with such material adverse effects on us will not be identified in the future. at december 31, 2015 , we had estimated and accrued $4 million related to environmental matters. employees as of december 31, 2015 , xylem had approximately 12,700 employees worldwide. we have more than 3,700 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 17% are represented by labor unions, and in certain foreign countries, some of our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. company history and certain relationships on october 31, 2011 (the "distribution date"), itt completed the spin-off (the spin-off ) of xylem, formerly itt's water equipment and services businesses ("waterco"). the spin-off was completed pursuant to the distribution agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 (the distribution agreement ), among itt, exelis inc., acquired by harris inc. on may 29, 2015, ( exelis ) and xylem. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website www.xyleminc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room located at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may also obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. these reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 12 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to operational and external factors failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we offer our products and services in competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require successful management of these factors, including continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive, which could adversely affect our financial performance. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2015 , 41% , 32% and 21% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states, europe and emerging markets, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or prolonged downturn in financial or macro-economic conditions in these areas or in the united states could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2015 , 59% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states, with 21% of total revenue generated in emerging markets. we expect our international operations sales and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. we have placed a particular emphasis on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject, in varying degrees, to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; changes in tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of global operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; and insurrection, armed conflict, terrorism or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, we now conduct more of our operations in emerging markets than we have in the past, which could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on 13 remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the difficulty of enforcing agreements, challenges collecting receivables, protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products, higher business conduct risks, less qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable events might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. there has been an increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity in recent years, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable laws, including anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we conduct approximately 59% of our business in various locations outside the united states. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, canadian dollar, british pound, polish zloty and australian dollar. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, british pound, chinese yuan, swedish krona, canadian dollar and australian dollar. as the u.s. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted. for instance, our 2015 revenue decreased by 8.0% due to unfavorable foreign currency impacts. continued strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro and the currencies of the other countries in which we do business, could materially and adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. refer to item 7a "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. 14 weather conditions and climate changes may adversely affect, or cause volatility to/in, our financial results. weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures or shifting conditions as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, our pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology, flowtronex and lowara brands. fluctuations to warmer and cooler temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our b&amp;g brand. given the unpredictable nature of weather conditions and climate change, this may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by an increasing amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. our historical growth has included acquisitions. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we cannot make assurances, however, that we will be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we become exposed to substantial undisclosed liabilities or new material risks associated with the acquired businesses; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2015 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $2 billion . the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks and trade names as of the acquisition date. we do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. in testing for impairment, we will make a qualitative assessment, and if we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test is required. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the periods recognized. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have announced restructuring plans in an effort to reposition our european and north american businesses to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a 15 result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. the successful implementation and execution of our restructuring and realignment actions is critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace. factors that may impede a successful implementation is retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. if the restructuring and realignment actions are not executed successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in more than 150 countries and 59% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2015 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first- out method. actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process failures or other problems that could result in potential product safety, regulatory or environmental risk which can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any product liability claims. recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2015 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $1,274 million , including our 3.55% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due september 2016 and 4.875% senior notes of $600 million aggregate principal amount due october 2021. we have an existing five-year competitive advance and revolving credit facility (the credit facility ), which provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $600 million. we have a risk sharing finance facility agreement (the "r&amp;d facility agreement") with the european investment bank ("eib") in an aggregate principal amount of up to 120 million (approximately $132 million). our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; 16 limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those related to antitrust, environmental, product, and other matters. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and also damage to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses, including acquisitions and divestitures. some of these proceedings seek remedies relating to environmental matters, intellectual property matters, product liability and personal injury claims, employment, labor and pension matters, and government and commercial or contract issues, sometimes related to acquisitions or divestitures. we may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. additionally, we may receive fines or penalties or be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. our business could be adversely affected by interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations or cybersecurity threats. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, we, and some of our third party vendors, have experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past and may experience them in the future, potentially with more frequency. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. we have adopted measures to mitigate potential risks associated with information technology disruptions and cybersecurity threats, however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, regulatory enforcement actions, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. we also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, e.g. production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls, and perform business continuity planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. 17 failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, training and cultural benefits. we will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. the intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights laws are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will continue to repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. 18 the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position or results of operations. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; 19 results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our third amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of part or all of our business operations. for example, the third amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations and do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders, unless unanimous. in addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. risks related to our 2011 spin-off from itt corporation in connection with our spin-off, itt and exelis, acquired by harris inc. on may 29, 2015, will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis's indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt and exelis, itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.risk factors and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). all forward-looking statements made in this report are based on information available to the company as of the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2016 revenue of $3.8 billion and approximately 16,000 employees, is a leading global water technology company. we design, manufacture and service highly engineered solutions ranging across a wide variety of critical applications. for example, our broad portfolio of solutions addresses customer needs across the water cycle, from the delivery and use of drinking water to the collection and treatment of wastewater to the return of water to the environment. we have differentiated market positions in core application areas including transport, treatment, test, smart metering, building services, industrial processing and irrigation. setting us apart is a unique set of global assets which include: fortress brands with leading market positions, some of which have been operating for more than 100 years 3 far-reaching global distribution networks consisting of direct sales forces and independent channel partners that collectively serve a diverse customer base in more than 150 countries a substantial installed base that provides for steady recurring revenue a strong financial position and cash generation profile that enable us to fund strategic organic and inorganic growth initiatives, and consistently return capital to shareholders key tenets of our long-term strategy include (1) accelerate profitable growth; (2) increase profitability by driving continuous improvement initiatives; (3) leadership and talent development; and (4) focus on execution and accountability. company history and certain relationships on october 31, 2011 (the "distribution date"), itt completed the spin-off (the spin-off ) of xylem, formerly itt's water equipment and services businesses. the spin-off was completed pursuant to a distribution agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 (the distribution agreement ), among itt (now itt llc), exelis inc., acquired by harris inc. on may 29, 2015, ( exelis ) and xylem. on october 31, 2016, xylem inc. completed the acquisition of all of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of sensus worldwide limited (other than sensus industries) ( sensus ), pursuant to the terms of the share purchase agreement dated as of august 15, 2016, and the first amendment to the share purchase agreement dated as of october 31, 2016 (together, the purchase agreement ). the aggregate consideration paid for the acquisition was approximately $ 1.7 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments as provided in the purchase agreement. the consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, proceeds from issuances under the company's existing commercial paper program, borrowings under a new euro-denominated term loan and the issuance of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.250% senior notes due 2026 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior notes due 2046. our industry our planet faces serious water challenges. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and these supplies are under threat due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and the effects of climate change. demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient clean water supply, existing infrastructure for water supply is aging and inadequately funded. in the united states, deteriorating pipe systems lose approximately one out of every six gallons of water between the treatment plant and the end customer part of a national (and global) problem of non-revenue water' that is a major financial challenge of many utilities. these challenges create opportunities for growth in the global water industry, which we estimate to have a total market size of approximately $550 billion . we compete in areas that are pivotal to improving water productivity, water quality and resilience. water productivity refers to the more efficient delivery and use of clean water. water quality refers to the efficient and effective management of wastewater. resilience refers to the management of water-related risks and the resilience of water infrastructure. the company's customers often face all three of these challenges, ranging from inefficient and aging water distribution networks (which require increases in water productivity ); energy-intensive or unreliable wastewater management systems (which require increases in water quality ); or exposure to natural disasters such as floods or droughts (which require increases in resilience ). additionally, through the recent acquisition of sensus, we now also provide solutions to enhance efficiency, improve safety and conserve resources to customers in the electric and gas sectors. delivering value in these areas creates significant opportunity for the company. we estimate our total served market size to be approximately $54 billion. the global water industry value chain the water industry value chain is comprised of equipment and services companies, like xylem, which address the unique challenges and demands of a diverse customer base. this customer base includes utilities that supply water through an infrastructure network, and engineering, procurement and construction or "epc" firms, which work with utilities to design and build water and wastewater infrastructure networks, as depicted below. utilities and epc customers are looking for technology and application expertise from their equipment and services providers to address trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. in addition to utilities and epc customers, equipment and service providers also provide distinct technologies to a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities and residential buildings. 4 water industry supply chain business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water productivity, quality and resilience challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: accelerate profitable growth. to accelerate growth, we are focusing on several priorities: emerging markets - we seek to accelerate our growth in priority emerging markets through increased focus on product localization and channel development. innovation &amp; technology - we seek to enhance the company's innovation efforts with increased focus on technologies and innovation that can significantly improve customers' productivity, quality and resilience. commercial leadership - we are strengthening our capabilities by simplifying our commercial processes and supporting information technology systems. mergers and acquisitions - we continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, will act upon attractive acquisition candidates to accelerate our growth, including into adjacent markets. drive continuous improvement. we seek to embed continuous improvement into our culture and simplify our organization to make the company more agile, more profitable and create room to reinvest in growth. to accomplish this, we will continue to strengthen our lean six sigma and global procurement capabilities and continue to optimize our cost structure through business simplification, eliminating structural, process and product complexity. leadership and talent development . we seek to continue to invest in attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent with an increased focus on leadership and talent development programs. we will continue to align individual performance with the objectives of the company and its shareholders. focus on execution and accountability. we seek to ensure the impact of these strategic focus areas by holding our people accountable and streamlining our performance management and goal deployment systems. 5 business segments, distribution and competitive landscape we have t hree reportable business segments that are aligned around the critical market applications they provide: water infrastructure, applied water and sensus. see note 20 , segment and geographic data, in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2016 revenue (in millions) % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,599 71 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment test equipment controls flygt wedeco godwin wtw sanitaire ysi leopold treatment 333 15 % test 314 14 % $ 2,246 100 % applied water building services $ 764 55 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems goulds water technology bell &amp; gossett a-c fire pump standard xchange lowara jabsco flojet flowtronex industrial water 540 39 % irrigation 89 6 % $ 1,393 100 % sensus water $ 74 56 % smart meters networked communications software base stations regulators data analytics sensus smith blair electric 27 20 % gas 16 12 % software and services/other 15 11 % (a) $ 132 100 % (a) includes revenue from november 1, 2016 through december 31, 2016 water infrastructure our water infrastructure segment supports the process that collects water from a source and distributes it to users, and then returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment through three closely linked applications: transport , treatment and test . the transport application also includes sales and rental of specialty dewatering pumps and related equipment and services, which provide the safe removal or draining of groundwater and surface water from a riverbed, construction site or mine shaft and bypass pumping for the repair of aging public utility infrastructure, as well as emergency water removal during severe weather events. the customer base consists of two primary end markets: public utility and industrial. the public utility market includes public, private and public-private entities that support water and wastewater networks. the industrial market includes customers who require similar water and wastewater infrastructure networks to support various industrial operations. water infrastructure provides the majority of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both public utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing the need for this application expertise: (i) the increase in both the type and amount of contaminants found in the water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies to optimize energy costs, (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce that has not been systematically replaced at utilities and other end-user customers, and (v) the build-out of water infrastructure in the 6 emerging markets. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $23 billion. given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, the water infrastructure segment competes with a large number of businesses. we differentiate ourselves in the market by focusing on product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life-cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. in the sale of products and services, we benefit from our large installed base, which requires maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the critical application and nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors within the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies and danaher corporation. applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water and serves a diverse set of end markets including: residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural. residential consumers represent the end users in the residential market, while owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, institutional buildings, restaurants, schools, hospitals and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market includes oems, exploration and production firms, and developers and managers of industrial facilities, such as electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage dispensing and food processing firms, and car washes. agricultural end users include owners and operators of crop and livestock farms, aquaculture, golf courses, and other turf applications. in the applied water segment end-use areas vary widely so specialized distribution partners are often preferred. our products in the applied water segment are sold through our global direct sales and strong indirect channels with the majority of revenue going through indirect channels. we have long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized loyalty and training programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $19 billion. population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are macro growth drivers of these markets, driving the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand equity, application expertise, product delivery and performance, quality, and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has allowed us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors within the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair ltd. and franklin electric co., inc. sensus sensus develops advanced technology solutions that enable intelligent use and conservation of critical water and energy resources. the segment delivers communications, smart metering, measurement and control technologies and services that allow customers to more effectively use their distribution networks for the delivery of critical resources such as water, electricity and natural gas. additionally, we sell software and services including cloud-based analytics, remote monitoring and data management, as well as smart lighting products and solutions that improve efficiency and public safety efforts across communities. at the heart of our leading technologies is automation and information. communications networks automate and optimize meter reading, monitor flow and detect, and enable rapid response to unsafe conditions. in short, they provide insight into operations and enable our customers to manage the entire scope of their operations remotely through their networks. at the center of our offering is the flexnet communication network, which provides a common communications platform and infrastructure for essential services. this two-way communication technology remotely connects a wide variety of smart points in a given network with protocols, frequently on licensed spectrum that enable reliable, resilient and secure transmissions. these technologies allow our customers to remotely and continuously monitor infrastructure, prioritize and manage maintenance and use data to optimize all aspects of their networks. 7 the majority of our sales in the u.s. are conducted through strong, long-standing relationships with leading distributors and dedicated channel partners for water, gas and electric markets. internationally, direct sales are often made in markets without established distribution channels, however, some distribution channels are used in more developed markets. with large utilities and government programs a more direct sales approach, with key account management, is employed. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $12 billion. macro growth drivers include increasing regulation and worldwide movement towards smart grid implementation. water scarcity and conservation, as well as the need to prevent revenue loss (via inaccurate meter readings, leaks or theft) are among the drivers of smart meter technologies. our sensus-branded meters are well positioned in the smart metering sector, the fastest growing sector of the global meter industry. we set ourselves apart in the industry by focusing on new product development and service offerings that are driving tangible savings of non-revenue water through improved meter accuracy, reduced theft and identification of leaks. our key competitors within the sensus segment include itron, badger meter, landys &amp; gyr, neptune (roper) and elster (honeywell). geographic profile the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. revenue (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 1,574 42 % $ 1,490 41 % $ 1,477 38 % europe 1,195 31 % 1,179 32 % 1,379 35 % asia pacific 518 14 % 482 13 % 478 12 % other 484 13 % 502 14 % 582 15 % total $ 3,771 $ 3,653 $ 3,916 in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. revenue derived from emerging markets comprised 21% of our revenue in each of the last three years. the table below illustrates the property, plant &amp; equipment and percentage of property, plant &amp; equipment by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. property, plant &amp; equipment (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 255 41 % $ 168 38 % $ 180 39 % europe 237 39 % 189 43 % 206 45 % asia pacific 87 14 % 56 13 % 53 11 % other 37 6 % 26 6 % 22 5 % total $ 616 $ 439 $ 461 supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, and asia. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by striving to take delivery of the inventory and manufacturing as close as possible to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, plastics, pcbs and electronic components. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk, including increased pricing risk due to proposed duty and tariff assessments by the united states on foreign imports. we attempt to control costs through fixed- priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global procurement initiative. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a 8 combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for most of our products we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages in the past several years that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our business segments experience a modest level of seasonality in their business. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as capital spending of customers as well as weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts, and fluctuations in temperatures, which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our company. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2016 , 2015 or 2014 revenue. backlog delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $1,078 million at december 31, 2016 and $716 million at december 31, 2015 . this increase is primarily attributable to the addition of sensus who had a backlog balance of $385 million at december 31, 2016. we anticipate that more than 70% of the backlog at december 31, 2016 will be recognized as revenue during 2017 . backlog includes contractual customer commitments as well as purchase orders on hand as of the end of the period. research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key foundation of our growth strategy and we focus on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development as well as improvement of existing products to increase customer value. our businesses invest substantial resources into r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and applications to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. we invested $110 million , $95 million , and $104 million in r&amp;d in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. we have r&amp;d and product development capabilities around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient and robust development process. we have several global technical centers and local development teams around the world where we are supporting global needs and accelerating the customization of our application expertise to local needs. in some cases, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities and at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets in specific regions worldwide. intellectual property we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications, and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. environmental matters and regulation our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and similar state agencies administer laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal, environmental remediation, and other aspects of environmental 9 protection. such environmental laws and regulations in the united states include, for example, the federal clean air act, the clean water act, the resource, conservation and recovery act, and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. environmental requirements significantly affect our operations. we have established an internal program to address compliance with applicable environmental requirements and, as a result, management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. accruals for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. it can be difficult to estimate reliably the final costs of investigation and remediation due to various factors. our accrued liabilities for these environmental matters represent the best estimates related to the investigation and remediation of environmental media such as water, soil, soil vapor, air and structures, as well as related legal fees based upon the facts and circumstances as currently known to us. these estimates, and related accruals, are reviewed quarterly and updated for progress of investigation and remediation efforts and changes in facts and legal circumstances. liabilities for these environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. at december 31, 2016 , we had estimated and accrued $4 million related to environmental matters. employees as of december 31, 2016 , xylem had approximately 16,000 employees worldwide. we have more than 5,200 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 17% are represented by labor unions, and in certain foreign countries, some of our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website www.xyleminc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room located at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may also obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. these reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 10 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to operational and external factors failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we offer our products and services in competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require successful management of these factors, including continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products and defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers' needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors may develop disruptive technologies or products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive, which could adversely affect our financial performance. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2016 , 42% , 31% and 21% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states, europe and emerging markets, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental fiscal and trade policies; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or prolonged downturn in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2016 , 58% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states, with 21% of total revenue generated in emerging markets. we expect our sales from international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. we have placed a particular emphasis on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject, in varying degrees, to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: changes in trade protection measures, including tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; unanticipated changes in other laws and regulations or in how such provisions are interpreted or administered; potential disruptions in our global supply chain; possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; 11 currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; regional safety and security considerations; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of global operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; and insurrection, armed conflict, terrorism or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, our operations in emerging markets could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the difficulty of enforcing agreements, challenges collecting receivables, protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products, higher business conduct risks, less qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such events might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we may not be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we become exposed to substantial undisclosed liabilities or new material risks associated with the acquired businesses; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. failure to successfully execute our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. in recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring plans in an effort to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. the successful implementation and execution of our restructuring and realignment actions is critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace. factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. if our restructuring actions are not executed successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 our business could be adversely affected by cyber threats or interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, insider risk, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, we have designed products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things. while we attempt to provide adequate security measures to safeguard our products from cyber threats, the potential for an attack remains. a successful attack may result in inappropriate access to our or our customer's information or an inability for our products to function properly. we, and some of our third party vendors, have experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past and may experience them in the future, potentially with more frequency. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. we have adopted measures to mitigate potential risks associated with information technology disruptions and cybersecurity threats, however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, regulatory enforcement actions, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. we also have a concentration of operations on certain sites, such as production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls, and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, trade regulations, including export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable laws, including anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we conduct approximately 58% of our business in various locations outside the united states. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, canadian dollar, british pound, polish zloty and australian dollar. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, british pound, chinese yuan, swedish krona, canadian dollar and australian dollar. as the u.s. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted. for instance, our 2016 revenue decreased by 13 2.0% due to unfavorable foreign currency impacts. continued strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro and the currencies of the other countries in which we do business, could materially and adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. refer to item 7a "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, training and cultural benefits. we will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could create product safety, regulatory or environmental risks, including personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any product liability claims. recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. weather conditions and climate changes may adversely affect, or cause volatility in, our financial results. weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures or weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology, flowtronex and lowara brands. fluctuations to warmer and cooler temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our b&amp;g brand. given the unpredictable nature of weather conditions and climate change, this may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by an increasing amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in more than 150 countries and 58% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2016 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. 14 any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first- out method. actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in tariff regimes, exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2016 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,368 million as described under liquidity and capital resources." our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and also damage to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. these proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability and personal injury claims, employment, labor and pension matters, and government contract issues and commercial or 15 contractual disputes. our acquisition of sensus has increased our exposure to intellectual property litigation and we expect that this risk will continue to increase as we execute on our innovation and technology priorities. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations, and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. additionally, we may be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. in addition, subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessments and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. the intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights laws are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant number of our products in our sensus segment are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and could be affected by interference with the radio spectrum that we use. a significant number of the products in our sensus segment use radio spectrum, which is subject to government regulation. to the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the united states or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. the regulations that govern our use of the radio spectrum may change and that the changes may require us to modify our products, either directly or due to interference caused by new consumer products allowed under the regulations. the inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in the united states, our products are primarily designed to use licensed spectrum in the 900mhz range. if the federal communications commission ( fcc ) did not renew our existing spectrum licenses, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations at a commercially feasible price or at all. 16 outside of the united states, certain of our products require the use of radio frequency and are subject to regulations. in some jurisdictions, radio station licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. our advanced and smart metering systems typically transmit to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in licensed bands made available to us through strategic partnerships and are reliant to some extent on the licensed spectrum continuing to be available through our partners or our customers. we may be unable to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations or to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in the relevant markets at a commercially feasible price or at all. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2016 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $ 3 billion the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks and trade names as of the acquisition date. we do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. in testing for impairment, we will make a qualitative assessment, and if we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test is required. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will continue to repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position or results of operations. our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with 17 any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; stock repurchases; acquisitions and divestitures; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 18 anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our third amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of part or all of our business operations. for example, our articles of incorporation and our by-laws, among other things, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations. in addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. in connection with our spin-off, itt (now itt llc) and exelis, acquired by harris inc., will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt (now itt llc) or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt (now itt llc) or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis's indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt (now itt llc) and exelis, itt (now itt llc) and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt (now itt llc) and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt (now itt llc) and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the spin-off. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt (now itt llc) or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt (now itt llc) and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt (now itt llc) and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt (now itt llc) and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.risk factors and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). all forward-looking statements made in this report are based on information available to the company as of the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2017 revenue of $4.7 billion and approximately 16,200 employees, is a leading global water technology company. we design, manufacture and service highly engineered solutions ranging across a wide variety of critical applications primarily in the water sector, but also in electric and gas. our broad portfolio of solutions addresses customer needs across the water cycle, from the delivery, measurement and use of drinking water to the collection, test and treatment of wastewater to the return of water to the environment. we have differentiated market positions in core application areas including transport, treatment, test, smart metering, smart infrastructure analytics, condition assessment and leak detection, building services and industrial processing. setting us apart is a unique set of global assets which include: fortress brands with leading positions, some of which have been in use for more than 100 years far-reaching global distribution networks consisting of direct sales forces and independent channel 3 partners that collectively serve a diverse customer base in approximately 150 countries a substantial installed base that provides for steady recurring revenue a strong financial position and cash generation profile that enables us to fund strategic organic and inorganic growth initiatives, and consistently return capital to shareholders key pillars of our long-term strategy include (1) accelerate profitable growth; (2) increase profitability by driving continuous improvement initiatives; (3) leadership and talent development; and (4) focus on execution and accountability. company history and certain relationships on october 31, 2011 (the "distribution date"), itt completed the spin-off (the spin-off ) of xylem, formerly itt's water equipment and services businesses. the spin-off was completed pursuant to a distribution agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 (the distribution agreement ), among itt (now itt llc), exelis inc., acquired by harris inc. on may 29, 2015, ( exelis ) and xylem. on october 31, 2016, xylem inc. completed the acquisition of all of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of sensus worldwide limited (other than sensus industries) ( sensus ), pursuant to the terms of the share purchase agreement dated as of august 15, 2016, and the first amendment to the share purchase agreement dated as of october 31, 2016 (together, the purchase agreement ). the aggregate consideration paid for the acquisition was approximately $ $1,766 million ( $1,710 million net of cash acquired). our industry our planet faces serious water challenges. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and these supplies are under threat due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and the effects of climate change. demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient clean water supply, existing infrastructure for water supply is aging and inadequately funded. in the united states, deteriorating pipe systems, theft or inaccurate meters result in approximately one out of every six gallons of water being lost between the treatment plant and the end customer. this problem of "non-revenue" water is a major financial challenge of many utilities globally, especially in developing markets where non-revenue water can represent 15% to 60% or more of net water produced. these and other challenges create opportunities for growth in the global water industry. we estimate the total addressable market size to be approximately $550 billion . we compete in areas that are pivotal to improving water productivity, water quality and resilience. water productivity refers to the more efficient delivery and use of clean water. water quality refers to the efficient and effective management of wastewater. resilience refers to the management of water-related risks and the resilience of water infrastructure. our customers often face all three of these challenges, ranging from inefficient and aging water distribution networks (which require increases in water productivity ); energy-intensive or unreliable wastewater management systems (which require increases in water quality ); or exposure to natural disasters such as floods or droughts (which require increases in resilience ). additionally, through the 2016 acquisition of sensus, we also provide solutions to enhance efficiency, improve safety and conserve resources to customers in the electric, gas, and lighting sectors. delivering value in these areas creates significant opportunity for the company. we estimate our total served market size to be approximately $54 billion. the global water industry value chain the water industry value chain includes equipment and services companies, like xylem, which address the unique challenges and demands of a diverse customer base. this customer base includes utilities that supply water through an infrastructure network, and engineering, procurement and construction or (epc) firms, which work with utilities to design and build water and wastewater infrastructure networks, as depicted below. utilities and epc customers are looking for technology and application expertise from their equipment and services providers to address trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. in addition to utilities and epc customers, equipment and service providers also provide distinct technologies to a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities and residential and commercial customers seeking to address similar trends. 4 water industry supply chain business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water productivity, quality and resilience challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: accelerate profitable growth. to accelerate growth, we are focusing on several priorities: emerging markets - we seek to accelerate our growth in priority emerging markets through increased focus on product localization and channel development. innovation &amp; technology - we seek to enhance our innovation efforts with increased focus on smart technologies and innovation that can significantly improve customers' productivity, quality and resilience. commercial leadership - we are strengthening our capabilities by simplifying our commercial processes and supporting information technology systems. mergers and acquisitions - we continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, will act upon attractive acquisition candidates to accelerate our growth, including into adjacent markets. drive continuous improvement. we seek to embed continuous improvement into our culture and simplify our organization to make the company more agile, more profitable and create room to reinvest in growth. to accomplish this, we will continue to strengthen our lean six sigma and global procurement capabilities, while also continuing to optimize our cost structure through business simplification, which aims to eliminate structural, process and product complexity. leadership and talent development . we seek to continue to invest in attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent with an increased focus on leadership and talent development programs. we will continue to align individual performance with the objectives of the company and its shareholders. focus on execution and accountability. we seek to ensure the impact of these strategic focus areas by holding our people accountable and streamlining our performance management and goal deployment systems. business segments, distribution and competitive landscape we have t hree reportable business segments that are aligned around the critical market applications they provide: water infrastructure, applied water, and measurement &amp; control solutions. see note 20 , segment and 5 geographic data, in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2017 revenue (in millions) % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,660 83 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment flygt godwin wedeco sanitaire leopold treatment 344 17 % $ 2,004 100 % applied water industrial water $ 593 42 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems goulds water technology bell &amp; gossett a-c fire pump standard xchange lowara jabsco flojet commercial building services 568 40 % residential building services 260 18 % $ 1,421 100 % measurement &amp; control solutions water $ 573 45 % smart meters networked communication devices data analytics test equipment controls sensor devices software &amp; managed services sensus smith blair wtw visenti ysi test 325 25 % gas 134 11 % electric 132 10 % software as a service/other 118 9 % $ 1,282 100 % water infrastructure our water infrastructure segment supports the process that collects water from a source, treats it and distributes it to users, and then treats and returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment through two closely linked applications: transport and treatment . the transport application also includes sales and rental of specialty dewatering pumps and related equipment and services, which provide the safe removal or draining of groundwater and surface water from a riverbed, construction or other industrial sites and bypass pumping for the repair of aging public utility infrastructure, as well as emergency water removal during severe weather events. the customer base consists of two primary end markets: water utility and industrial. the water utility market includes public, private and public-private entities that support water and wastewater networks. the industrial market includes customers who require similar water and wastewater infrastructure networks to support various industrial operations. water infrastructure provides the majority of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both water utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing demand for this application expertise: (i) the increase in both the type and amount of contaminants found in the water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies to optimize energy costs, (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce that has not been systematically replaced at utilities and other end-user customers, and (v) the build-out of water infrastructure in the emerging markets. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $17 billion. given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, the water infrastructure segment competes with a large number of businesses. we differentiate ourselves in the market by focusing on product performance, reliability 6 and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life-cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. in the sale or rental of products and provision of services, we benefit from our large installed base, which requires maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the critical application and nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors within the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies, united rentals and danaher corporation. applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water and serves a diverse set of end markets including: residential, commercial, and industrial. residential consumers represent the end users in the residential market, while owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, institutional buildings, restaurants, schools, hospitals and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market includes oems, exploration and production firms, and developers and managers of industrial facilities, such as electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage dispensing and food processing firms, and car washes. in the applied water segment, end markets vary widely and, as a result, specialized distribution partners are often preferred. as such, the applied water segment provides the majority of its sales through strong indirect channels with the remaining sales going through our global direct sales channels. we have long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized loyalty and training programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $19 billion. population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are macro growth drivers of these markets, driving the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand equity, application expertise, product delivery and performance, quality, and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has enabled us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors within the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair ltd. and franklin electric co., inc. measurement &amp; control solutions measurement &amp; control solutions develops advanced technology solutions that enable intelligent use and conservation of critical water and energy resources. the segment delivers communications, smart metering, measurement and control technologies and services that allow customers to more effectively use their distribution networks for the delivery of critical resources such as water, electricity and natural gas. we also provide analytical instrumentation used to measure water quality, flow and level in wastewater, surface water and coastal environments. additionally, we sell software and services including cloud-based analytics, remote monitoring and data management, leak detection and pressure monitoring solutions, as well as smart lighting products and solutions that improve efficiency and public safety efforts across communities. at the heart of our leading technologies is automation and information. communications networks automate and optimize meter reading, monitor flow rates and detect and enable rapid response to unsafe conditions. in short, they provide insight into operations and enable our customers to manage the entire scope of their operations remotely through their networks. at the center of our offering is the flexnet communication network, which provides a common communications platform and infrastructure for essential services. this two-way communication technology remotely connects a wide variety of smart points in a given network with protocols, frequently on fcc licensed spectrum that enable reliable, resilient and secure transmissions. these technologies allow our customers to remotely and continuously monitor infrastructure, prioritize and manage maintenance and use data to optimize all aspects of their networks. the majority of our sales in the u.s. is conducted through strong, long-standing relationships with leading distributors and dedicated channel partners for water, gas and electric markets. internationally, direct sales are often made in markets without established distribution channels; however, some distribution channels are used in 7 more developed markets. a more direct sales approach, with key account management, is employed for large utilities and government programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $18 billion. macro growth drivers include increasing regulation and worldwide movement towards smart grid implementation. water scarcity and conservation, as well as the need to prevent revenue loss (via inaccurate meter readings, leaks or theft) are among the drivers of smart meter and leak detection technologies. our sensus-branded meters are well positioned in the smart metering sector, the fastest growing sector of the global meter industry. we set ourselves apart in the industry by focusing on our communication network, new product development and service offerings that are driving tangible savings of non-revenue water through improved meter accuracy, reduced theft and identification of leaks. our key competitors within the measurement &amp; control solutions segment include itron, badger meter, landis+gyr, neptune (roper) and elster (honeywell). geographic profile the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. revenue (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 2,161 46 % $ 1,574 42 % $ 1,490 41 % europe 1,335 28 % 1,195 31 % 1,179 32 % asia pacific 611 13 % 518 14 % 482 13 % other 600 13 % 484 13 % 502 14 % total $ 4,707 $ 3,771 $ 3,653 in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and western europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. revenue derived from emerging markets comprised approximately 21% of our revenue in each of the last three years. the table below illustrates the property, plant &amp; equipment and percentage of property, plant &amp; equipment by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. property, plant &amp; equipment (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 258 40 % $ 255 41 % $ 168 38 % europe 259 40 % 237 39 % 189 43 % asia pacific 85 13 % 87 14 % 56 13 % other 41 7 % 37 6 % 26 6 % total $ 643 $ 616 $ 439 supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, and asia. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by striving to take delivery of the inventory and manufacturing as close as possible to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, batteries, aluminum, plastics, pcbs and electronic components. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk, including increased pricing risk due to proposed duty and tariff assessments by the united states on foreign imports. we attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global procurement initiative. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for many of our products we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available. 8 we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages in the past several years that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our business segments experience a modest level of seasonality in their business. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as capital spending of customers as well as weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts, and fluctuations in temperatures, which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our company. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2017 , 2016 or 2015 revenue. backlog backlog includes orders on hand as well as contractual customer agreements at the end of the period. delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. annual or multi-year contracts are subject to rescheduling and cancellation by customers due to the long-term nature of the contracts. as such, beginning total backlog, plus orders, minus revenues, will not equal ending total backlog due to contract adjustments, foreign currency fluctuations, and other factors. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and deployment schedules and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $1,513 million at december 31, 2017 and $1,292 million at december 31, 2016 . the december 31, 2016 backlog balance has been revised to include contractual agreements that sensus has with customers that do not have minimum commitments but which we believe will be executed upon over the terms of the contracts. we anticipate that over 60% of the backlog at december 31, 2017 will be recognized as revenue during 2018 . research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key foundation of our growth strategy and we focus on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development as well as improvement of existing products to increase customer value. our businesses invest substantial resources into r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and applications to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. we continue to increase our r&amp;d investments as a percentage of revenue year over year, with 3.8% in 2017 when compared to 2.9% in 2016 and 2.6% in 2015. we have r&amp;d and product development capabilities around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient and robust development process. we have several global technical centers and local development teams around the world where we are supporting global needs and accelerating the customization of our products and solutions to local needs. in some cases, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities and at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets globally. capitalized software we capitalize software developed for sale to external customers, which is included within "other intangible assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 we had net capitalized software for sale to external customers of $89 million and $54 million, respectively. intellectual property we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications, and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license 9 agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. environmental matters and regulation our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and similar state agencies administer laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal, environmental remediation, and other aspects of environmental protection. such environmental laws and regulations in the united states include, for example, the federal clean air act, the clean water act, the resource, conservation and recovery act, and the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. environmental requirements significantly affect our operations. we have established an internal program to address compliance with applicable environmental requirements and, as a result, management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. accruals for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. it can be difficult to estimate reliably the final costs of investigation and remediation due to various factors. our accrued liabilities for these environmental matters represent the best estimates related to the investigation and remediation of environmental media such as water, soil, soil vapor, air and structures, as well as related legal fees based upon the facts and circumstances as currently known to us. these estimates, and related accruals, are reviewed quarterly and updated for progress of investigation and remediation efforts and changes in facts and legal circumstances. liabilities for these environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. at december 31, 2017 , we had estimated and accrued $4 million related to environmental matters. commitment to sustainability at xylem, sustainability is at the very center of who we are and what we do. as a leading global water technology company, we deal with one of the world's most urgent sustainability issues on a daily basis; responsible stewardship of our shared water resources. we believe that technology is a key link in how the world can solve water. we have a long history of innovation, but today, we're focusing more than ever on the powerful capabilities of smart technology, integrated management and big data. these solutions will allow us to transport, treat, test and use water smarter, and more sustainably, than in the past. our link to this enormous challenge informs how we think about sustainability and drives us to become a more sustainable company. employees as of december 31, 2017 , xylem had approximately 16,200 employees worldwide. we have approximately 5,400 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 16% are represented by labor unions. in certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website www.xyleminc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec at the sec's public reference room located at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. the public may also obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. these reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 10 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to operational and external factors failure to compete successfully in our markets could adversely affect our business. we offer our products and services in competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product performance, reliability and innovation, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require successful management of these factors, including continued investment by us in manufacturing, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products and defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers' needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors or third parties from outside of our industry may develop disruptive technologies or products that are superior to our products, or may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. the failure of our technologies or products to maintain and gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive, which could adversely affect our financial performance. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2017 , 46% , 26% and 21% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states, western europe and emerging markets, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and federal, state, local and municipal governmental fiscal and trade policies; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; the availability of funding for our public sector customers; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or prolonged downturn in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2017 , 54% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states, with 21% of total revenue generated in emerging markets. we expect our sales from international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. we have placed a particular emphasis on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets. both our sales from international operations and export sales are subject, in varying degrees, to risks inherent to doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: changes in trade protection measures, including tariff and trade barriers and import and export licensing requirements; potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; unanticipated changes in other laws and regulations or in how such provisions are interpreted or administered; 11 potential disruptions in our global supply chain; possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, including those related to infrastructure and data transmission and privacy; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; regional safety and security considerations; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of global operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; and insurrection, armed conflict, terrorism or war. any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, our operations in emerging markets could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose limitations on our ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the difficulty of enforcing agreements, challenges collecting receivables, protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products, higher business conduct risks, less qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such events might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring and transformation plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. in recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring, realignment and transformation plans in an effort to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. in 2017, we undertook steps to advance a multi-year effort to transform many of our support functions and related technologies, including finance, human resources and procurement. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring and transformation plans. additionally, as a result of these plans , we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge or inefficiency during transitional periods. transformation, realignment and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. the successful implementation and execution of our restructuring, realignment and transformation actions are critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace and positioning us for future growth. factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters or matters involving certain third parties selected to assist us, and adverse economic market conditions. if our restructuring actions are not executed successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption to any of our facilities or operations may adversely affect our business . if our facilities or operations were to be disrupted as a result of a significant equipment failure, natural disaster, power outage, fire, explosion, terrorism, cyber-based attack, labor disputes, work stoppages or slowdowns, adverse weather conditions or other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand. interruptions could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 our business could be adversely affected by cyber threats or interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, and operations that are vulnerable to damage or disturbance from a variety of sources. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to failure, vandalism, denial-of-service, insider risk, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, power outages and other events. in addition, we have designed products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things. while we attempt to provide adequate security measures to safeguard our products from cyber threats, the potential for an attack remains. a successful attack may result in inappropriate access to our or our customers' information or an inability for our products to function properly. we, and some of our third party vendors, have experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past and may experience them in the future, likely with more frequency and involving a broader range of devices. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. we have adopted measures designed to mitigate potential risks associated with information technology disruptions and cybersecurity threats, however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, regulatory enforcement actions, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. we also have or operate through a concentration of operations on certain sites, such as production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers, and to customers, could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. additionally, to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in may 2018. and other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls, and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we may not be able to identify suitable candidates successfully, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient internal controls over financial activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we become exposed to substantial undisclosed liabilities or new material risks associated with the acquired businesses; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. failure to successfully execute our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, trade regulations, including export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or business partners have or may have violated applicable laws, including anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we conduct approximately 54% of our business in various locations outside the united states. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, polish zloty, canadian dollar, british pound and australian dollar. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, british pound, chinese yuan, canadian dollar, swedish krona and australian dollar. as the u.s. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted. for instance, our 2017 revenue increased by 0.9% due to favorable foreign currency impacts. strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro and the currencies of the other countries in which we do business, could materially and adversely affect our sales growth in future periods. refer to item 7a "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering, sales and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, training and cultural benefits. we will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could create product safety, regulatory or environmental risks, including personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that 14 this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any product liability claims. manufacturing, design, software or service defects or inadequacies may also result in contractual damages or credits being issued, which could impact our revenue. recalls, removals and product liability and quality claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. weather conditions and climate changes may adversely affect, or cause volatility in, our financial results. weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures or weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology and lowara brands. fluctuations to warmer and cooler temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our b&amp;g brand. given the unpredictable nature of weather conditions and climate change, this may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by a substantial amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. changes in our effective tax rates may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in approximately 150 countries and 54% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2017 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; sustainability of historical income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cut and jobs act ( tax act ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within our company, the use of provisional estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. many aspects of the tax act are unclear and may not be clarified for some time. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the tax act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position. our non-u.s. operations will be subject to alternative tax regimes implemented under the tax act. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. our business could be adversely affected by inflation and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first- out method. actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. our business could be adversely affected by the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products, and we expect that reliance to increase. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, 15 batteries, aluminum, and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in tariff regimes, exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2017 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,200 million as described under liquidity and capital resources." our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and also damage to our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. these proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability and personal injury claims, privacy, employment, labor and pension matters, and government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes. our acquisition of sensus and technology focused companies has increased our exposure to intellectual property litigation and we expect that this risk will continue to increase as we execute on our innovation and technology priorities. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations, and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. additionally, we may be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. the global and diverse nature of our operations, coupled with the increase in regulation and enforcement in many regions of the globe, means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. in addition, subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessments and estimates of loss 16 contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. the intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights laws are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our products and offerings in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and could be affected by interference with the radio spectrum that we use. a significant portion of the offering in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment use radio spectrum, which is subject to government regulation. to the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the united states or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. the regulations that govern our use of the radio spectrum may change and the changes may require us to modify our products or seen new partnerships, either directly or due to interference caused by new consumer products allowed under the regulations. the inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, suitable partners for co-development may not be able to be secured by us. in the united states, our products are primarily designed to use licensed spectrum in the 900mhz range. if the federal communications commission ( fcc ) did not renew our existing spectrum licenses, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations at a commercially feasible price or at all. outside of the united states, certain of our products require the use of radio frequency and are subject to regulations. in some jurisdictions, radio station licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. our advanced and smart metering systems offering typically transmit to (and receive information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in licensed bands made available to us through strategic partnerships and are reliant to some extent on the licensed spectrum continuing to be available through our partners or our customers. we may be unable to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations or to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in the relevant markets at a commercially feasible price or at all. 17 we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2017 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $ 3 billion . the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names and fcc licenses as of the acquisition date. we do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. in testing for impairment, we will make a qualitative assessment, and if we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a goodwill impairment test is required. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. unforeseen environmental issues could impact our financial position or results of operations. our operations and products and offerings are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, 18 that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; stock repurchases; acquisitions and divestitures; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute transformation, restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our third amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of part or all of our business operations. for example, our articles of incorporation and our by-laws, among other things, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations. in addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. 19 in connection with our spin-off, itt (now itt llc) and exelis, acquired by harris inc., will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt (now itt llc) or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt (now itt llc) or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis's indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt (now itt llc) and exelis, itt (now itt llc) and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt (now itt llc) and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt (now itt llc) and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt (now itt llc) or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt (now itt llc) and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt (now itt llc) and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt (now itt llc) and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.risk factors and in subsequent filings we make with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). all forward-looking statements made herein are based on information currently available to the company as of the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2018 revenue of $5.2 billion and approximately 17,000 employees, is a leading global water technology company. we design, manufacture and service highly engineered products and solutions ranging across a wide variety of critical applications primarily in the water sector, but also in electric and gas. our broad portfolio of products, services and solutions addresses customer needs across the water cycle, from the delivery, measurement and use of drinking water to the collection, test and treatment of wastewater to the return of water to the environment. we have differentiated market positions in core application areas including transport, treatment, test, smart metering, smart infrastructure analytics, digital solutions, condition assessment and leak detection, building services and industrial processing. setting us apart is a unique set of global assets that include: 3 fortress brands with leading positions, some of which have been in use for more than 100 years far-reaching global distribution networks consisting of direct sales forces and independent channel partners that collectively serve a diverse customer base in approximately 150 countries a substantial installed base that provides for steady recurring revenue a strong financial position and cash generation profile that enables us to fund strategic organic and inorganic growth initiatives, and consistently return capital to shareholders key pillars of our long-term strategy include: (1) accelerate profitable growth; (2) increase profitability by driving continuous improvement initiatives; (3) leadership and talent development; (4) focus on execution and accountability; and (5) create social value in everything we do. company history and certain relationships on october 31, 2011 (the "distribution date"), itt corporation ("itt") completed the spin-off (the spin-off ) of xylem, formerly itt's water equipment and services businesses. the spin-off was completed pursuant to a distribution agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 (the distribution agreement ), among itt (now itt llc), exelis inc., acquired by harris inc. on may 29, 2015 ( exelis ), and xylem. our industry our planet faces serious water challenges. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and these supplies are under threat due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and the effects of climate change. demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient clean water supply, existing water supply infrastructure is aging and inadequately funded. in the united states, deteriorating pipe systems, theft or inaccurate meters result in approximately one out of every six gallons of water being lost between the treatment plant and the end customer. this problem of "non-revenue" water is a major financial challenge of many utilities globally, especially in developing markets where non-revenue water can represent 15% to 60% or more of net water produced. these and other challenges create opportunities for growth in the global water industry. we estimate the total addressable market size to be approximately $550 billion . we compete in areas that are pivotal to improving water productivity, water quality and resilience. water productivity refers to the more efficient delivery and use of clean water. water quality refers to the efficient and effective management of wastewater. resilience refers to the management of water-related risks and the resilience of water infrastructure. our customers often face all three of these challenges, ranging from inefficient and aging water distribution networks (which require improvements in water productivity ); energy-intensive or unreliable wastewater management systems (which require improvements in water quality ); or exposure to natural disasters such as floods or droughts (which require improvements in resilience ). additionally, through the acquisition of sensus, we also provide solutions to enhance communications and efficiency, improve safety and conserve resources to customers in the water, electric, gas, and lighting sectors. delivering value in these areas creates significant opportunity for the company. we estimate our total served market size to be approximately $57 billion. the global water industry value chain the water industry value chain includes equipment and services companies, like xylem, which address the unique challenges and demands of a diverse customer base. this customer base includes water and wastewater utilities that supply and treat clean water or transport and treat wastewater or storm water through an infrastructure network, and engineering, procurement and construction or (epc) firms, which work with utilities to design and build water and wastewater infrastructure networks, as depicted below. utilities and epc customers require products, solutions, services, technology and application expertise from their equipment and services providers to address trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, increasing operational costs and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. in addition to utilities and epc customers, equipment and service providers also provide distinct technologies to a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities and residential and commercial customers seeking to address similar trends. 4 water industry supply chain business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water productivity, quality and resilience challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: accelerate profitable growth. to accelerate growth, we continue to focus on several priorities: emerging markets - we seek to accelerate our growth in priority emerging markets through increased focus on product localization and channel development. innovation &amp; technology - we seek to enhance our innovation efforts with increased focus on smart, digitally enabled technologies and innovation that can significantly improve customers' productivity, quality and resilience. commercial leadership - we are strengthening our capabilities by simplifying our commercial processes and supporting information technology systems. mergers and acquisitions - we continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, will act upon attractive acquisition candidates to accelerate our growth, including into adjacent markets. drive continuous improvement. we seek to embed continuous improvement into our culture and simplify our organization to make the company more agile, more profitable and create room to reinvest in growth. to accomplish this, we will continue to strengthen our lean six sigma and global procurement capabilities, while also continuing to optimize our cost structure through business simplification, which aims to eliminate structural, process and product complexity. leadership and talent development . we seek to continue to invest in attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent with an increased focus on leadership and talent development programs. we will continue to align individual performance with the objectives of the company and its shareholders. focus on execution and accountability. we seek to ensure the impact of these strategic focus areas by holding our people accountable and streamlining our performance management and goal deployment systems. create social value in everything we do. we seek to have a positive impact on communities through the combination of corporate social responsibility and employee, customer, and stakeholder engagement. 5 business segments, distribution and competitive landscape we have t hree reportable business segments that are aligned around the critical market applications they provide: water infrastructure, applied water, and measurement &amp; control solutions. see note 21 , segment and geographic data, in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2018 revenue (in millions) % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,779 82 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment mobile dewatering equipment flygt godwin leopold sanitaire wedeco treatment 397 18 % $ 2,176 100 % applied water industrial water $ 706 46 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems a-c fire pump bell &amp; gossett flojet goulds water technology jabsco lowara standard xchange commercial building services 596 39 % residential building services 232 15 % $ 1,534 100 % measurement &amp; control solutions water $ 692 46 % smart meters networked communication devices data analytics test equipment controls sensor devices software &amp; managed services critical infrastructure services emnet pure sensus smith blair valor water visenti wtw ysi test 344 23 % gas 195 13 % electric 143 10 % software as a service/other 123 8 % $ 1,497 100 % water infrastructure our water infrastructure segment supports the process that collects water from a source, treats it and distributes it to users, and then treats and returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment through two closely linked applications: transport and treatment . the transport application also includes sales and rental of specialty dewatering pumps and related equipment and services, which provide the safe removal or draining of groundwater and surface water from riverbeds and construction sites or other industrial sites and bypass pumping for the repair of aging utility infrastructure, as well as emergency water transport and removal during severe weather events. the customer base consists of two primary end markets: utility and industrial. the utility market includes public, private and public-private entities that support water, wastewater and storm water networks. the industrial market includes customers who require similar water and wastewater infrastructure networks to support various industrial operations. water infrastructure provides the majority of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing demand for this application expertise: (i) the increase in both the type and amount of contaminants 6 found in the water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies to optimize energy and other operational costs, (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce that has not been systematically replaced at utilities and other end-user customers, and (v) the build-out of water infrastructure in the emerging markets. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $17 billion. given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, the water infrastructure segment competes with a large number of businesses. we differentiate ourselves in the market by focusing on product and service performance, quality and reliability, innovation, speed to market with new or disruptive technologies, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life-cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. in the sale or rental of products and provision of services, we benefit from our large installed base, which requires maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the critical application and nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors within the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies, united rentals, danaher corporation and grundfos. applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water and serves a diverse set of end markets including: residential, commercial and industrial. residential consumers represent the end users in the residential market, while owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, institutional buildings, restaurants, schools, hospitals and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market includes oems, exploration and production firms, and developers and managers of industrial facilities, such as electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage dispensing and food processing firms and car washes. in the applied water segment, end markets vary widely and, as a result, specialized distribution partners are often preferred. as such, the applied water segment provides the majority of its sales through strong indirect channels with the remaining sales going through our global direct sales channels. we have long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized loyalty and training programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $19 billion. population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are macro growth drivers of these markets, driving the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand equity, application expertise, product delivery and performance and energy efficiency, quality and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has enabled us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors within the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair plc and franklin electric co., inc. measurement &amp; control solutions measurement &amp; control solutions develops advanced technology solutions that enable intelligent use and conservation of critical water and energy resources. the segment delivers communications, smart metering, measurement and control technologies and critical infrastructure technologies that allow customers to more effectively use their distribution networks for the delivery, monitoring and control of critical resources such as water, electricity and natural gas. we also provide analytical instrumentation used to measure water quality, flow and level in clean water, wastewater, surface water and coastal environments. additionally, we offer software and services including cloud-based analytics, remote monitoring and data management, leak detection, condition assessment, asset management and pressure monitoring solutions. we also offer smart lighting solutions that improve efficiency and public safety efforts across communities. at the heart of our leading technologies is automation, data management and decision support. communications networks automate and optimize meter reading, monitor flow rates and detect and enable rapid response to 7 changing and unsafe conditions. in short, they provide insight into operations and enable our customers to manage the entire scope of their operations remotely through their networks. at the center of our offering is the flexnet communication network, which provides a common communications platform and infrastructure for essential services. this two-way communication technology remotely connects a wide variety of smart points in a given network with protocols, frequently on fcc licensed spectrum in the u.s., that enable reliable, resilient and secure transmissions. these technologies allow our customers to remotely and continuously monitor infrastructure, prioritize and manage maintenance and use data to optimize all aspects of their networks. our advanced infrastructure analytics complement these offerings with intelligent solutions that help utility decision-makers manage their networks more effectively in real time. the majority of our sales in the u.s. is conducted through strong, long-standing relationships with leading distributors and dedicated channel partners for water, gas and electric markets. internationally, direct sales are often made in markets without established distribution channels; however, some distribution channels are used in more developed markets. a more direct sales approach, with key account management, is employed for large utilities and government programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $21 billion. macro growth drivers include increasing regulation, aging infrastructure and worldwide movement towards smart grid implementation. water scarcity and conservation, as well as the need to prevent revenue loss (via inaccurate meter readings, leaks or theft) are among the drivers of smart meter and leak detection technologies. our sensus-branded meters are well positioned in the smart metering sector, the fastest growing sector of the global meter industry. we set ourselves apart in the industry by focusing on our communication network, innovation, new product development and service offerings that deliver tangible savings of non-revenue water through improved meter accuracy, reduced theft and identification of leaks. pure technologies' equipment and services are also well positioned in the leak detection sector which is attracting considerable attention as aging infrastructure and increased regulatory scrutiny exert pressure on operating budgets. our key competitors within the measurement &amp; control solutions segment include itron, badger meter, landis+gyr, neptune (roper), elster (honeywell), mueller water products, danaher corporation, hach and teledyne. geographic profile the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. revenue (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 2,424 47 % $ 2,161 46 % $ 1,574 42 % europe 1,449 28 % 1,335 28 % 1,195 31 % asia pacific 660 13 % 611 13 % 518 14 % other 674 12 % 600 13 % 484 13 % total $ 5,207 $ 4,707 $ 3,771 in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and western europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. revenue derived from emerging markets comprised approximately 20% of our revenue in each of the last three years. supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, and asia. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by striving to take delivery of the inventory and manufacturing as close as possible to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, batteries, pcbs and electronic components as well as steel, brass, nickel, copper, aluminum and plastics. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk, including increased pricing risk due to duty and tariff assessments by the united states on foreign imports. we attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global procurement initiative. 8 our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for many of our products we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources may be readily available. we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with suppliers to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages in the past several years that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our business segments experience a modest level of seasonality in their business. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as capital spending of customers as well as weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures, all of which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our company. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2018 , 2017 or 2016 revenue. backlog backlog includes orders on hand as well as contractual customer agreements at the end of the period. delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. annual or multi-year contracts are subject to rescheduling and cancellation by customers due to the long-term nature of the contracts. as such, beginning total backlog, plus orders, minus revenues, will not equal ending total backlog due to contract adjustments, foreign currency fluctuations, and other factors. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and deployment schedules and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $1,689 million at december 31, 2018 and $1,513 million at december 31, 2017 . we anticipate that approximately 65% of the backlog at december 31, 2018 will be recognized as revenue during 2019 . research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key foundation of our growth strategy and we focus on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development as well as improvement of existing products to increase customer value. our businesses invest substantial resources into r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and integrated solutions to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. in addition to investments made in software development, which were capitalized, we incurred $189 million , $181 million , and $110 million as a result of r&amp;d investment spending in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we have r&amp;d and product development capabilities around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient and robust development process. we have several global technical centers and local development teams around the world where we are supporting global needs and accelerating the customization of our products and solutions to address local needs. in some cases, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities and at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets globally. as part of expanding our bandwidth and to increase our access to technology, we have built innovation eco-system partnerships with academic institutions, start-up accelerators and venture capitalist organizations. capitalized software we capitalize software developed for sale to external customers, which is included within "other intangible assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 we had net capitalized software for sale to external customers of $128 million and $89 million, respectively. intellectual property we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, 9 copyrights and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. environmental matters and regulation our global operations are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, including the discharge of pollutants and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. we continue to be dedicated to environmental and sustainability programs to minimize the use of natural resources, and reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials from our processes and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. at december 31, 2018 , we had estimated and accrued $4 million related to environmental matters. environmental sustainability at xylem, sustainability is at the very center of who we are and what we do. as a leading global water technology company, we address one of the world's most urgent sustainability challenges on a daily basis - responsible stewardship of our shared water resources. technology is playing an increasingly important role in helping the world solve water issues. we have a long history of innovation, but today, we are focusing more than ever on the powerful capabilities of smart technology, integrated management and big data. these solutions will allow us to transport, treat, test and use water smarter and more sustainably than in the past, and enable our customers to realize greater water and energy efficiencies. our link to global water and environmental challenges informs how we think about sustainability and drives us to become a more sustainable company. our approach to climate-related issues is informed by xylem's climate change policy, which defines our climate change approach across product development, operations, employees and external engagement. for example, in the past two years, we have completed several acquisitions to build out our measurement &amp; control solutions portfolio around systems intelligence, bringing best-in-class advanced metering infrastructure, advanced data analytics and software development capabilities to our portfolio. these technologies have enhanced our ability to help customers facing water scarcity, storm water overflows and other climate-related issues. we are also focused on increasing our capabilities in the areas of advanced industrial water treatment and industrial water services. we are committed to sustainability through our own operations as well, as we are reducing our environmental footprint by decreasing our water intensity, greenhouse gas emissions and waste sent to landfills. employees as of december 31, 2018 , xylem had approximately 17,000 employees worldwide. we have approximately 5,900 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 16% are represented by labor unions. in certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website www.xylem.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 10 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, each of the following risks should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material but are not the only risks and uncertainties we face and therefore may not be exhaustive. we operate in a continually changing business, economic and geopolitical environment and as a result new risk factors may emerge from time to time. we can neither predict with certainty these new risk factors nor assess the extent to which any new factor, or combination of factors, may adversely impact our business or results of operations. risks related to operational and external factors failure to compete successfully in our markets and disruptive technologies could adversely affect our business. we offer our products and services in competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product and service performance, quality and reliability, innovation, speed to market with new or disruptive technologies, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require successful management of these factors, including continued investment by us in manufacturing, technology and innovation, research and development, engineering, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, services and business models and defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors, (iii) enhance our products and services offerings by adding innovative features or disruptive technologies that differentiate them from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers' needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products and services. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors or third parties from outside of our industry may develop disruptive technologies or products and services that are superior to ours, may develop more efficient or effective methods of providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new or disruptive technologies or evolving customer requirements. the failure of our technologies, products or services to maintain and gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings could significantly reduce our revenues or market share and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive, which could adversely affect our market share and financial performance. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by global economic and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2018 , 47% , 25% and 20% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states, western europe and emerging markets, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; industrial and private sector spending, federal, state, local and municipal governmental fiscal and trade policies; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; the availability of funding for our public sector customers; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or prolonged downturn in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. in 2018 , 53% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states, with 20% of total revenue generated in emerging markets. we expect our sales from international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. we have placed a particular emphasis on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets. many of our manufacturing operations, employees and suppliers are located 11 outside of the united states. both our international operations and sales are subject, in varying degrees, to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: changes in trade protection measures, including embargoes, tariffs and other trade barriers, and import and export regulations and licensing requirements; instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, such as economic nationalism, populism, protectionism and anti-global sentiment; changes in tax laws and potential negative consequences from the interpretation, application and enforcement by governmental tax authorities of tax laws and policies; unanticipated changes in other laws and regulations or in how such provisions are interpreted or administered; potential disruptions in our global supply chain; possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, including those related to infrastructure and data transmission, security and privacy; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; regional safety and security considerations; increased costs and risks in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of global operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; and outbreak or escalation of insurrection, armed conflict, terrorism or war. changes in the geopolitical or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. for example, changes in u.s. policy regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, could also negatively impact our business. in 2018, the u.s. imposed tariffs on certain goods imported from china and certain other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the u.s. on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could result in an increase in supply chain costs that we may not be able to offset or may otherwise adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we continue to monitor brexit and its potential impacts on our results of operations and financial condition. volatility in foreign currencies is expected to continue as the united kingdom executes its exit from the european union. if the united kingdom's membership in the european union terminates without an agreement (referred to as a hard brexit ), there could be increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and european union, increased transportation costs, shipping delays because of the need for customs inspections and procedures and shortages of certain goods. the united kingdom will also need to negotiate its own tax and trade treaties with countries all over the world, which could take years to complete. in the case of a hard brexit , our exposure to disruptions to our supply chain, increased costs, the imposition of tariffs and currency devaluation in the united kingdom could result in a material impact to our consolidated revenue, earnings and cash flow. further, any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, our operations in emerging markets could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the difficulty of enforcing agreements, challenges collecting receivables, protection of our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products and services, higher business conduct risks, ability to hire and retain qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such events might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 our business could be adversely affected by cyber threats or other interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, including those operated by third parties, to process, transmit and store our electronic information or our customers' electronic information, and manage or support a variety of business processes or activities. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to disruption due to cybersecurity attacks including denial-of-service, computer viruses and security breaches, insider risk, equipment or system failure, vandalism, natural disasters, power outages, shutdown, telecommunication or utility failure and other events. in addition, we have designed products and services that connect to and are part of the internet of things. while we attempt to provide adequate security measures to safeguard our products from cyber threats, the potential for an attack remains. a successful attack may result in inappropriate access to our or our customers' information or an inability for our products and services to function properly. we, and some of our third party vendors, have experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past and may experience them in the future, likely with more frequency and involving a broader range of devices. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. we have adopted measures designed to mitigate potential risks associated with information technology disruptions and cybersecurity threats, however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromise of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business, liability to others, regulatory enforcement actions, and/or damage to our reputation. we also have or operate through a concentration of operations on certain sites, such as production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. transport of goods from suppliers and to customers could also be hampered for the reasons stated above. disruption to any of the information technology and communications networks on which we rely, or an attack on our iot products and services, could interfere with our operations, disrupt service to our customers, interrupt production and shipments, damage customer relationships and negatively impact our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. a material disruption to any of our facilities or operations, or that of third parties upon which we rely, may adversely affect our business. if our facilities or operations, or that of third parties upon which we rely in our supply chain and critical business operations, were to be disrupted as a result of a significant equipment or system failure, natural disaster, power, water or communications outage, fire, explosion, critical supply failure, terrorism, cyber-based attack, political disruption, labor dispute, work stoppage or slowdown, adverse weather conditions or other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. interruptions could cause an inability to meet customer demand, increase our costs, reduce our sales, and impact our business processes and activities. we also have or operate through a concentration of operations on certain sites, such as production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. any interruption in capability may be lengthy and have lasting effects, require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, and require us to make substantial expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring and transformation plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. in recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring, realignment and transformation plans in an effort to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. in 2017, we undertook steps to advance a multi-year effort to transform many of our support functions and related technologies, including finance, human resources and procurement. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring and transformation plans. implementing planned restructuring 13 activities could be delayed resulting in delayed realization of the operational and financial benefits from such actions. additionally, as a result of these plans, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge or inefficiency during transitional periods. transformation, realignment and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. the successful implementation and execution of our restructuring, realignment and transformation actions are critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace and positioning us for future growth. factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters including tax, matters involving certain third party service providers selected to assist us including their compliance with the company's internal controls over financial reporting, and adverse economic market conditions. if our restructuring actions are not executed successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets, technologies and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition, once integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient cybersecurity controls or insufficient internal controls over financial or compliance activities or financial reporting at an acquired entity that could impact us on a combined basis; the failure to realize expected synergies; the possibility that we become exposed to substantial undisclosed liabilities or new material risks associated with the acquired businesses; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. failure to successfully execute our acquisition strategy could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition or results of operations. failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation and data privacy and security laws, could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, trade regulations, including export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or business partners have or may have violated applicable laws, regulations or policies, including anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. additionally, to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. other countries, such as china, have enacted or are 14 enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs of compliance that are likely to increase over time. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions or civil penalties, damage to our reputation and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business could be adversely affected by significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we conduct approximately 53% of our business in various locations outside the united states. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, polish zloty, canadian dollar, british pound and australian dollar. any significant change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, chinese yuan, british pound, canadian dollar, swedish krona and australian dollar. as the u.s. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted. for instance, our 2018 revenue increased by 0.5% due to favorable foreign currency impacts. strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro and the currencies of the other countries in which we do business, could materially and adversely affect our sales growth in future periods. refer to item 7a "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, technology, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract a significant number of employees in senior management, engineering, technology, sales and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer competitive compensation, benefits, training and development and an attractive culture. we will need to continue to develop a roster of qualified talent to support business growth and replace departing employees. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could create product safety, regulatory or environmental risks, including personal injury, death or property damage. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any product liability claims. manufacturing, design, software or service defects or inadequacies may also result in contractual damages or credits being issued, which could impact our profitability. recalls, removals and product liability and quality claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by a substantial amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project beyond our knowledge or control, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. 15 changes in our effective tax rates and tax expenses may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in approximately 150 countries and 53% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2018 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates and tax expense, including: the geographic mix of jurisdictions in which profits are earned and taxed; the statutory tax rates and tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; the resolution of tax issues arising from tax examinations by various tax authorities; and the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. xylem is regularly examined by various tax authorities throughout the world and the resolutions of these examinations do not typically have a significant impact on our effective tax rates and tax expenses but they could. additionally, in december 2017, the united states enacted tax reform legislation ( tax act ). the legislation implements many new u.s. domestic and international tax provisions. many aspects of the tax act remain unclear, and although additional clarifying guidance is expected to be issued (by the internal revenue service ( irs ), the u.s. treasury department or via a technical correction law change), it may not be clarified for some time. in addition, many u.s. states have not yet updated their laws to take into account the new federal legislation. as a result, there may be further impacts of the new law on our results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that the tax act, or interpretations under it, could change and could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material. our business could be adversely affected by inflation, tariffs and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in prices for commodities, parts, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor which may be driven by prevailing price levels, exchange rates, changes in trade protection measures including tariffs, and other economic factors. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recuperate all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through product price increases. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first- out method. actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. our business could be adversely affected by the availability of parts and raw materials or the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products, and we expect that reliance to increase. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, batteries, pcbs and electronic components, as well as steel, brass, nickel, copper, aluminum and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these materials, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, changes in trade protection measures including tariffs, exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2018 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,308 million as described under liquidity and capital resources." our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; create uncertainty and complexity in managing debt that uses libor as a reference rate, including as a result of the planned transition away from libor to the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ); limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our 16 indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we may be negatively impacted by legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and damage our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses (or the business operations of previously owned entities). these proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, tax, intellectual property, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability and personal injury claims, privacy, employment, labor and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes. our continuing transition to connected or digital technologies and solutions has increased our exposure to intellectual property litigation and we expect that this risk will continue to increase as we execute on our innovation and technology priorities. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations, regulatory proceedings and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. additionally, we may be required to change or cease operations at one or more facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. the global and diverse nature of our operations, coupled with the increase in regulation and enforcement in many regions of the globe, means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. in addition, subsequent developments in legal and regulatory proceedings may affect our assessments and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. weather conditions and climate changes may adversely affect, or cause volatility in, our financial results. weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures or weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. within the dewatering space, pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology and lowara brands. fluctuations to warmer and cooler temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our b&amp;g brand. the unpredictable nature of weather conditions and climate change may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. 17 if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in the aggregate are important to our business. the intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights laws are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our products and offerings in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and could be affected by interference with the radio spectrum that we use. a significant portion of the offering in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment use radio spectrum, which is subject to government regulation. to the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the united states or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. the regulations that govern our use of the radio spectrum may change and the changes may require us to modify our products or seek new partnerships, either directly or due to interference caused by new consumer products allowed under the regulations. the inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, suitable partners for co-development may not be able to be secured by us. in the united states, our products are primarily designed to use licensed spectrum in the 900mhz range. if the federal communications commission ( fcc ) did not renew our existing spectrum licenses, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations at a commercially feasible price or at all. outside of the united states, certain of our products require the use of radio frequency and are subject to regulations. in some jurisdictions, radio station licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. our advanced and smart metering systems offering transmits to (and receives information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in licensed bands made available to us through strategic partnerships and are reliant to some extent on the licensed spectrum continuing to be available through our partners or our customers. we may be unable to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations or to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in the relevant markets at a commercially feasible price or at all. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2018 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $ 3 billion . the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair 18 value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names and fcc licenses as of the acquisition date. we do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. a goodwill impairment charge will be recognized if the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, failure of the fcc to renew licenses, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. developments in environmental laws and regulations could impact our financial condition or results of operations. our operations, product and service offerings are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' 19 equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; stock repurchases or dividends; acquisitions and divestitures; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute transformation, restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; fluctuations in foreign currency impacts; fluctuations in the budgets of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation, governmental or regulatory body investigation, or tax examination; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; impact of trade protection measures including tariffs; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our fourth amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of part or all of our business operations. for example, our articles of incorporation and our by-laws, among other things, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations. in addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals of our business operations or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. 20 in connection with our spin-off, itt (now itt llc) and exelis, acquired by harris inc., will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify itt (now itt llc) or exelis for certain liabilities. if we are required to indemnify itt (now itt llc) or exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. in the case of itt's or exelis' indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to itt's or exelis' ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt (now itt llc) and exelis, itt (now itt llc) and exelis agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt (now itt llc) and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt (now itt llc) and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt (now itt llc) or exelis has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt (now itt llc) and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt (now itt llc) and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt (now itt llc) and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.risk factors and with subsequent filings we make with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). all forward-looking statements made herein are based on information currently available to the company as of the date of this report. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 3 item 1. business business overview xylem, with 2019 revenues of $5.2 billion and approximately 16,300 employees, is a leading global water technology company. we design, manufacture and service highly engineered products and solutions ranging across a wide variety of critical applications primarily in the water sector, but also in electric and gas. our broad portfolio of products, services and solutions addresses customer needs across the water cycle, from the delivery, measurement and use of drinking water to the collection, testing, analysis and treatment of wastewater to the return of water to the environment. we have differentiated market positions in core application areas including transport, treatment, test, smart metering, infrastructure assessment services, digital solutions, condition assessment and leak detection, commercial and residential building services and industrial processing. setting us apart is a unique set of global assets that include: market leading brands, some of which have been in use for more than 100 years far-reaching global distribution networks consisting of direct sales forces and independent channel partners serving a diverse customer base in approximately 150 countries a substantial global installed base that provides for steady recurring revenue a strong financial position and cash generation profile that enables us to fund strategic organic and inorganic growth initiatives, and consistently return capital to shareholders key pillars of our long-term strategy include: (1) accelerate profitable growth; (2) increase profitability by driving continuous improvement initiatives; (3) develop leadership and talent; (4) focus on execution and accountability; and (5) create social value in everything we do. company history and certain relationships on october 31, 2011, itt corporation ("itt") completed the spin-off (the spin-off ) of xylem, formerly itt's water equipment and services businesses. the spin-off was completed pursuant to a distribution agreement, dated as of october 25, 2011 (the distribution agreement ), among itt (now itt llc), exelis inc., acquired by harris inc. on may 29, 2015 ( exelis ), and xylem. our industry our planet faces serious water challenges. less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and these supplies are under threat due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and the effects of climate change. demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. by 2025, more than 30% of the world's population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. even in developed countries with sufficient clean water supply, existing water supply infrastructure is aging and often inefficient. in the united states, deteriorating pipe systems, theft or inaccurate meters result in approximately one out of every six gallons of treated water being lost prior to reaching the end customer. this problem of "non-revenue" water is a major financial challenge of many utilities globally, especially in developing markets where non-revenue water can represent 10% to 60% or more of net water produced. these and other challenges create opportunities for growth in the global water industry. we estimate the total addressable market size to be approximately $560 billion . global water needs cannot be met without streamlining the water industry's cost structure with technologies that fundamentally change the provision and management of water. we compete in areas that are pivotal to improving water affordability and resilience while reducing the impact of water scarcity. water affordability refers to the more efficient delivery, use and treatment of clean water and wastewater. resilience refers to the management of water-related risks and the resilience of water infrastructure. water scarcity refers to the management of limited supplies of water due to climate change, overpopulation and pollution. our customers often face all three of these challenges, ranging from inefficient and aging water distribution networks and energy-intensive or unreliable wastewater management systems (which require improvements in water affordability ); droughts and pollution which limit the amount of water readily available (causing "water scarcity ); or exposure to natural disasters such as floods or droughts (which require improvements in resilience ). additionally, we also provide solutions to enhance communications and efficiency, improve safety and conserve resources to customers in the water, electric, gas, and lighting sectors. delivering value in these areas creates significant opportunity for the company. we estimate our total served market size to be approximately $61 billion. 4 the global water industry value chain the water industry value chain includes equipment, technology and services companies, like xylem, which address the unique challenges and demands of a diverse customer base. this customer base includes water and wastewater utilities that supply, treat and monitor clean water or transport, treat and analyze wastewater or storm water through an infrastructure network, and engineering, procurement and construction or (epc) firms and third party contractors, which work with utilities to design and build water and wastewater infrastructure networks, as depicted below. utilities and other customers require products, solutions, services, technology and application expertise from their equipment, technology and services providers to address trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, increasing operational costs and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. in addition to utilities, equipment, technology and service companies also provide distinct technologies and application expertise to a wide array of entities, including farms, mines, power plants, industrial facilities (such as food and beverage and pharmaceutical manufacturers) and residential and commercial customers seeking to address similar trends. water industry supply chain business strategy our strategy is to enhance shareholder value by providing distinctive solutions for our customers' most important water scarcity, affordability and resilience challenges, enabling us to grow revenue, organically and through strategic acquisitions, as we streamline our cost structure. key elements of our strategy are summarized below: accelerate profitable growth. to accelerate growth, we continue to focus on several priorities: emerging markets - we seek to accelerate our growth, particularly in priority emerging markets through increased focus on product localization and channel development. innovation &amp; technology - we seek to enhance our innovation efforts with increased focus on smart, digitally enabled technologies and innovation that can significantly improve customers' productivity, quality and resilience. commercial leadership - we are strengthening our capabilities by simplifying and modernizing our commercial processes and supporting information technology systems. mergers and acquisitions - we continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, act upon attractive acquisition candidates to accelerate our growth, including into adjacent markets. drive continuous improvement. we seek to embed continuous improvement into our culture and simplify our organization to make the company more agile, more profitable and create room to reinvest in growth. to accomplish this, we will continue to strengthen our lean six sigma and global procurement capabilities, 5 while also continuing to optimize our cost structure through business simplification, which aims to eliminate structural, process and product complexity. develop leadership and talent . we continue to invest in attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent with a focus on leadership and talent development programs. we will continue to align individual performance with the objectives of the company, its shareholders and its stakeholders. focus on execution and accountability. we seek to ensure the impact of these strategic focus areas by holding our people accountable and streamlining our performance management and goal deployment systems. create social value in everything we do. we seek to have a positive impact on communities through the combination of sustainable practices, corporate social responsibility and employee, customer, and stakeholder engagement. business segments, distribution and competitive landscape we have t hree reportable business segments that are aligned around the critical market applications they provide: water infrastructure, applied water, and measurement &amp; control solutions. see note 22 , segment and geographic data, in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas. the table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments. market applications 2019 revenue (in millions) % revenue major products primary brands water infrastructure transport $ 1,780 82 % water and wastewater pumps filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment mobile dewatering equipment flygt godwin leopold sanitaire wedeco treatment 397 18 % $ 2,177 100 % applied water building services $ 848 55 % pumps valves heat exchangers controls dispensing equipment systems a-c fire pump bell &amp; gossett flojet goulds water technology jabsco lowara standard xchange industrial water 693 45 % $ 1,541 100 % measurement &amp; control solutions water $ 768 50 % smart meters networked communication devices data analytics test equipment controls sensor devices software &amp; managed services critical infrastructure services emnet pure sensus smith blair visenti wtw ysi energy 337 22 % test 327 21 % software as a service/other 99 7 % $ 1,531 100 % water infrastructure our water infrastructure segment primarily supports the process that collects water from a source, treats it and distributes it to users, and then treats and returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment through two closely linked applications: transport and treatment. the transport application also includes sales and rental of 6 specialty dewatering pumps and related equipment and services, which provide the safe removal or draining of groundwater and surface water from construction sites or other industrial sites and bypass pumping for the repair of aging utility infrastructure, as well as emergency water transport and removal during severe weather events. the customer base consists of two primary end markets: utility and industrial. the utility market includes public, private and public-private entities that support water, wastewater and storm water networks. the industrial market includes customers who require similar water and wastewater infrastructure networks to support various industrial operations. water infrastructure sells primarily through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. both utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams' global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. several trends are increasing demand for this application expertise: (i) the increase in both the type and amount of contaminants found in the water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies to optimize energy and other operational costs, (iv) the retirement of an aging water industry workforce that has not been systematically renewed at utilities and other end-user customers, and (v) the build-out of water infrastructure in the emerging markets. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $18 billion. given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, the water infrastructure segment competes with a large number of businesses. we differentiate ourselves in the market by focusing on product and service performance, quality and reliability, innovation, speed to market with new or disruptive technologies, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product life-cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels and price. in the sale or rental of products and provision of services, we benefit from our large installed base, which requires maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the critical application and nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. our key competitors in the water infrastructure segment include ksb inc., sulzer ltd., evoqua water technologies, united rentals, trojan (danaher corporation) and grundfos, among others. applied water applied water encompasses the uses of water in two primarily applications: building services and industrial water. these applications serve a diverse set of end markets including: residential, commercial and industrial. residential consumers represent the end users in the residential market, while owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, institutional buildings, restaurants, schools, hospitals and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. the industrial market includes oems, exploration and production firms, and developers and managers of industrial facilities, such as electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, food and beverage companies and car washes. in the applied water segment, end markets vary widely and, as a result, specialized distribution partners are often preferred. as such, the applied water segment provides the majority of its sales through strong indirect channels with the remaining sales going through our global direct sales channels. we have long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized loyalty and training programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $19 billion. population growth, urbanization and regulatory requirements are macro growth drivers of these markets, driving the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. competition in the applied water segment focuses on brand equity, application expertise, product delivery, performance and energy efficiency, quality and price. we compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. we believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has enabled us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. our key competitors in the applied water segment include grundfos, wilo se, pentair plc and franklin electric co., inc. 7 measurement &amp; control solutions measurement &amp; control solutions develops advanced technology solutions that enable intelligent use and conservation of critical water and energy resources. the segment delivers communications, smart metering, measurement and control technologies and critical infrastructure technologies that allow customers to more effectively use their distribution networks for the delivery, monitoring and control of critical resources such as water, electricity and natural gas. we also provide analytical instrumentation used to measure and analyze water quality, flow and level in clean water, wastewater, surface water and coastal environments. additionally, we offer software and services including cloud-based analytics, remote monitoring and data management, leak detection, condition assessment, asset management and pressure monitoring solutions. we also offer smart lighting solutions that improve efficiency and public safety efforts across communities. at the heart of our leading technologies is automation, data management and decision support. communications networks automate and optimize meter reading, monitor flow rates and detect and enable rapid response to changing and unsafe conditions. in short, they provide insight into operations and enable our customers to manage the entire scope of their operations remotely through their networks. at the center of our offering is the flexnet communication network, which provides a common communications platform and infrastructure for essential metering services. this two-way communication technology remotely connects a wide variety of smart points in a given network with protocols, frequently on federal communications commission ("fcc") licensed spectrum in the united states, that enable reliable, resilient and secure transmissions. these technologies allow our customers to remotely and continuously monitor their water, gas or electric distribution infrastructure, prioritize and manage maintenance and use data to optimize all aspects of their networks. our advanced infrastructure analytics complement these offerings with intelligent solutions that help utility decision-makers manage and maintain their networks more effectively in real time. the majority of our sales in the united states is conducted through strong, long-standing relationships with leading distributors and dedicated channel partners for water, gas and electric markets. internationally, direct sales are often made in markets without established distribution channels; however, some distribution channels are used in more developed markets. a more direct sales approach, with key account management, is employed for large utilities and government programs. we estimate our served market size in this sector to be approximately $24 billion. macro growth drivers include increasing regulation, aging infrastructure and worldwide movement towards smart grid implementation. water scarcity and conservation, as well as the need to prevent revenue loss (via inaccurate meter readings, leaks or theft) are among the drivers of smart meter and leak detection technologies. our sensus-branded meters are well positioned in the smart metering sector, the fastest growing sector of the global meter industry. we set ourselves apart in the industry by focusing on our communication network, innovation, new product development and service offerings that deliver tangible savings of non-revenue water through improved meter accuracy, reduced theft and identification of leaks. our pure technologies' equipment and services are also well positioned in the leak detection sector which is attracting considerable attention as aging infrastructure and increased regulatory scrutiny exert pressure on operating budgets. our key competitors in the measurement &amp; control solutions segment include itron, badger meter, landis+gyr, neptune (roper), elster (honeywell), echologics (mueller water products), hach (danaher corporation) and teledyne. geographic profile the table below illustrates the annual revenue and percentage of revenue by geographic area for each of the three years ended december 31. revenue (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 $ amount % of total $ amount % of total $ amount % of total united states $ 2,554 49 % $ 2,424 47 % $ 2,161 46 % europe 1,380 26 % 1,449 28 % 1,335 28 % asia pacific 659 13 % 660 13 % 611 13 % other 656 12 % 674 12 % 600 13 % total $ 5,249 $ 5,207 $ 4,707 in addition to the traditional markets of the united states and western europe, opportunities in emerging markets within asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and other countries are growing. revenue derived from emerging markets comprised approximately 20% of our revenue in each of the last three years. 8 supply and seasonality we have a global manufacturing and assembly footprint, with production facilities in europe, north america, latin america, asia and the middle east. our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by striving to take delivery of the inventory and manufacturing as close as possible to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. all of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, the availability and prices of which may fluctuate. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, batteries, pcbs and electronic components, as well as steel, brass, nickel, copper, aluminum and plastics. while we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk, including increased pricing risk due to duty and tariff assessments by the united states on foreign imports. we attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global procurement initiative. our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. we typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. for many of our products we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources may be readily available. we may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. from time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with suppliers to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. there have been no raw material shortages in the past several years that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole. our business segments experience a modest level of seasonality in their operations. this seasonality is dependent on factors such as customers' capital spending as well as climate change and weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures, all of which can positively or negatively impact portions of our business. customers our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our company. no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues in 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . backlog backlog includes orders on hand as well as contractual customer agreements at the end of the period. delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. annual or multi-year contracts are subject to rescheduling and cancellation by customers due to the long-term nature of the contracts. as such, beginning total backlog, plus orders, minus revenues, will not equal ending total backlog due to contract adjustments, foreign currency fluctuations and other factors. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and deployment schedules and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $1,801 million at december 31, 2019 and $1,689 million at december 31, 2018 . we anticipate that approximately 60% of the backlog at december 31, 2019 will be recognized as revenue during 2020 . research and development research and development ( r&amp;d ) is a key foundation of our growth strategy and we focus on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. our engineers are involved in new product development as well as improvement of existing products to increase customer value. our businesses invest substantial resources into r&amp;d. we anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our r&amp;d capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and integrated solutions to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. in addition to investments made in software development, which were capitalized, we incurred $191 million , $189 million , and $181 million as a result of r&amp;d investment spending in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. we have r&amp;d and product development capabilities around the world. r&amp;d activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient and robust development process. we have several global technical centers and local development teams around the world where we are supporting global needs and accelerating the customization of our products and solutions to address local needs. in some cases, our r&amp;d activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities and at strategic customer sites. these piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets globally. as 9 part of expanding our bandwidth and to increase our access to technology, we have built innovation eco-system partnerships with academic institutions, start-up accelerators and venture capital organizations. capitalized software we capitalize software developed for sale to external customers, which is included within "other intangible assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 we had net capitalized software for sale to external customers of $165 million and $128 million, respectively. intellectual property we generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. we believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on r&amp;d investments. while we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. patents, patent applications and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. as the portfolio of our patents, patent applications and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. environmental matters and regulation our global operations are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, such as those promulgated by the united states environmental protection agency and similar state and foreign environmental agencies, including the discharge of pollutants and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. while environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations. we continue to be dedicated to environmental and sustainability programs to minimize the use of natural resources, and reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials from our processes and to remediate identified environmental concerns. as to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities. we do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. at december 31, 2019 , we had estimated and accrued $3 million related to environmental matters. sustainability at xylem, sustainability is at the center of who we are and what we do. as a leading global water technology company, we address one of the world's most urgent sustainability challenges - responsible stewardship of our shared water resources. technology is playing an increasingly important role in helping the world solve water issues. we have a long history of innovation and we are focusing on the powerful capabilities of smart technology, integrated management and data analytics. we believe our financial performance and commitment to sustainability go hand in hand. xylem approaches business sustainability as a way to generate economic value while also creating value for society, thus meeting the needs of both. accordingly, in 2019, we evolved our approach to leverage sustainability in our decision-making toward long-term value for our shareholders, customers, employees and communities in which we operate and announced an ambitious new slate of 2025 sustainability goals. these new goals can be found in our 2018 sustainability report, which is published using the global reporting initiative (gri) framework. in setting our 2025 sustainability goals, we also aligned them with the united nations sustainable development goals (unsdgs), not only to substantiate our contribution to achieving global objectives, but also to be transparent in our communication to stakeholders by providing details on our responsibility to build a sustainable future. while xylem embraces all 17 of the unsdgs, we have a special focus on sdg6: clean water and sanitation. 10 employees as of december 31, 2019 , xylem had approximately 16,300 employees worldwide. we have approximately 5,600 employees in the united states, of whom approximately 17% are represented by labor unions. in certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. we believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers and believe our relations with our employees are good. available information we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website www.xylem.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the sec. in addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the sec, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 11 item 1a. risk factors in evaluating our business, the following discussion of significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky should be carefully considered, along with all of the other information in this report and in our other filings with the sec. the events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances that we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations or market price of our common stock. these risk factors do not identify all the risks we face. we operate in a continually changing business, economic and geopolitical environment and as a result new risk factors may emerge from time to time. we could also be affected by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks. in addition, the global economic and geopolitical climate amplifies many of these risks. risks related to our business failure to compete successfully in our markets and disruptive technologies could adversely affect our business. we offer our technologies, products and services in competitive markets. we believe the principal points of competition in our markets are product and service performance, quality and reliability, innovation, speed to market with new or disruptive technologies and business models, application expertise, brand reputation, energy efficiency, product security, product life cycle cost, timeliness of delivery, proximity of service centers, effectiveness of our distribution channels, price and customers' experience in conducting business with us. maintaining and improving our competitive position will require successful management of these factors in a business environment with increasingly rapid rates of change and disruption, including our continued investment in talent, manufacturing, technology and innovation, research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: (i) develop and maintain competitive products, services, business models and customer experience to address emerging trends and customer needs in our target markets, (ii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors, many of which are new and non-traditional competitors from outside our industry such as major technology firms, or those out of emerging markets, (iii) enhance our product and service offerings by adding innovative features or disruptive technologies that differentiate them from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite innovation and technical expertise and understanding of customers' needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products and services. we may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. our competitors or third parties from outside our industry may develop disruptive technologies, products and services more quickly than us or that are superior to ours, may develop new or more efficient or effective methods or business models to provide technologies, products and services, or may adapt more quickly than we do to new trends, disruptive technologies or evolving customer requirements. the failure of our technologies, products or services to maintain and gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings, as well as customers' slower-than-expected adoption of and investment in our new and innovative technologies could significantly reduce our revenues or market share and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain products to stay competitive, which could adversely affect our market share and financial performance. failure to continue competing successfully or to win large contracts could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. our business, products and services could be adversely affected by cyber threats or other interruptions in information technology, communications networks and operations. our business operations rely on information technology and communications networks, some of which are operated by third parties including, increasingly, cloud-based service providers, to process, transmit and store our electronic information, including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers or other business partners. we have, or operate through, a concentration of operations on certain sites, such as production and shared service centers. we also rely on third parties' information technology systems to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. regardless of protection measures, essentially all systems are susceptible to damage, disruption or shut-down due to cybersecurity attacks, including ransomware, denial-of-service, computer viruses and security breaches, as well as human error or malfeasance, equipment or system failure, including due to maintenance, obsolescence or age, vandalism, natural disasters, fire, power or communication outages, shutdown, telecommunication or utility failure and other events. in 12 any such circumstances, our system redundancy and other business continuity and disaster recovery planning and response may be ineffective or inadequate. in addition, we offer certain services and products, including pumps, controllers and meters, used by third parties for operational purposes or to collect data, which are digitally-enabled or connect to and are part of the internet of things (iot). cybersecurity attacks may target hardware, software and information installed, stored or transmitted by our products after they have been purchased and incorporated into third-parties' products, facilities or infrastructure. while we attempt to provide security measures to safeguard our products and services from cyber threats, the potential for an attack remains. a successful attack may result in the misappropriation, destruction, unauthorized access to or disclosure of third parties' confidential information, damage, disruption or shut-down of third parties' operations, recall of our products or increased costs for security and remediation, as well as possible damage to our brand reputation. like many multinational corporations, we, and some third parties upon which we rely, have experienced cybersecurity attacks on information technology networks and systems, products and services in the past and may experience them in the future, likely with more frequency and involving a broader range of devices and modes of attack. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business, operations, products, services or customers. we have adopted measures designed to mitigate potential risks associated with cybersecurity threats, breaches or other disruptions or damage to our information technology networks and systems, products and services but the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions and threats could impact our business, operations, products and services. disruption to any of the information technology and communications networks on which we rely, or an attack on our products and services, could interfere with our operations, disrupt our supply chain and service to our customers, interrupt production and shipments, result in theft or compromise of our and our customers' intellectual property and trade secrets, damage employee, customer and business partner relationships, negatively impact our reputation, result in legal claims and proceedings or regulatory enforcement actions, and increase our costs for security and remediation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. although we continue to assess these risks, implement controls and perform business continuity and disaster recovery planning, we cannot be sure that cybersecurity attacks or other interruptions with material adverse effects will not occur. our results of operations and financial condition are subject to global economic, geopolitical and financial market conditions. we compete around the world in various geographic and product markets. in 2019 , 49% , 24% and 20% of our total revenue was from customers located in the united states, western europe and emerging markets, respectively. we expect revenue from these markets to be significant for the foreseeable future. important factors impacting our businesses include the overall strength of these economies and our customers' confidence in both local and global macro-economic conditions; instability and uncertainties from the global geopolitical environment; industrial and private sector spending, federal, state, local and municipal governmental fiscal and trade policies; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; interest rates; availability of commercial financing for our customers and end-users; the availability of funding for our public sector customers; and unemployment rates. a slowdown or prolonged downturn in the global economy or our markets has in the past, and could have in the future a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. we are exposed to economic, geopolitical and other risks associated with our international sales and operations. in 2019 , 51% of our total revenue was from customers outside the united states, with 20% of total revenue generated in emerging markets. we expect our sales from international operations and export sales to continue to be a significant portion of our revenue. we have placed a particular emphasis on increasing our growth and presence in emerging markets. many of our manufacturing operations, employees and suppliers are located outside of the united states. both our international operations and sales are subject, in varying degrees, to risks inherent in doing business outside the united states. these risks include the following: changes in trade protection measures, including embargoes, tariffs and other trade barriers, and import and export regulations and licensing requirements; instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, including economic nationalism, populism, and increasing protectionism and anti-global sentiment; changes in tax laws and potential negative consequences from the interpretation, application and enforcement by governmental tax authorities of tax laws and policies; 13 unanticipated changes in other laws and regulations or in how such provisions are interpreted or administered; potential disruptions in our global supply chain; possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, including those related to infrastructure and data transmission, security and privacy; theft, compromise or misappropriation of technology or intellectual property; currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; regional safety and security considerations; the transition away from libor to the secured overnight financing rate, sofr, as a benchmark reference for short-term interests; increased costs and risks in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of global operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; and threat, outbreak, uncertainty or escalation of insurrection, armed conflict, terrorism, pandemics or war. changes in the geopolitical or economic environments in the countries and regions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. for example, changes in united states policy regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, could negatively impact our business. the united states tariffs imposed on certain goods imported from china and certain other countries has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the united states on a broader range of imports from china or other countries' goods, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could result in a continued increase in supply chain costs that we may not be able to offset or may otherwise adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we continue to monitor the potential impacts brexit on our results of operations and financial condition. volatility in foreign currencies is expected to continue as the united kingdom executes its exit from the european union. if the united kingdom and the european union cannot conclude an agreement on their future relationship before the end of the transition period (referred to as a hard brexit ), trade would be based on world trade organization rules which would likely lead to increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and european union, increased transportation costs, shipping delays because of the need for customs inspections and procedures and shortages of certain goods. the united kingdom will also need to negotiate its own trade treaties with countries all over the world, which could take years to complete. in the case of a hard brexit , our exposure to disruptions to our supply chain, increased costs, the imposition of tariffs and currency devaluation in the united kingdom could result in a material impact to our consolidated revenue, earnings and cash flow. further, any payment of distributions, loans or advances to us by our foreign subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. in addition to the general risks that we face outside the united states, our operations in emerging markets could involve additional uncertainties for us, including risks that governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to us, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; governments may seek to nationalize our assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting our business. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the difficulty of enforcing agreements, challenges collecting receivables, protecting our intellectual property and other assets, pressure on the pricing of our products and services, higher business conduct risks, ability to hire and retain qualified talent and risks of political instability. we cannot predict the impact such events might have on our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by inflation, tariffs and other manufacturing and operating cost increases. our operating costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in prices for commodities, parts, raw materials, energy and related utilities, freight, and cost of labor which may be driven by prevailing price levels, exchange rates, changes in trade protection measures including tariffs, and other economic factors. in order to remain competitive, we may not be able to recover all or a portion of these higher costs from our customers through 14 product price increases. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. actions we take to mitigate volatility in manufacturing and operating costs may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material disruption to any of our facilities or operations, or that of third parties upon which we rely, may adversely affect our business. our facilities and operations rely on a complex global supply chain consisting of suppliers, contract manufacturers and logistics providers. in addition, our business relies on certain third parties to supply critical business processes and activities, including in the areas of finance, human resources, procurement and information technology. if our facilities or operations of third parties upon which we rely in our supply chain and critical business operations were to be disrupted as a result of a significant equipment or system failure, natural disaster, power, water or communications outage, fire, explosion, critical supply failure, terrorism, cybersecurity attack, political disruption, outbreak of pandemics, insurrection, armed conflict or war, labor dispute, work stoppage or slowdown, technology failure, adverse weather conditions or other reason, our financial performance, operations and business could be adversely affected. interruptions could cause an inability to meet customer demand or contractual commitments, increase our costs, reduce our sales, and impact our business processes and activities, including our ability to timely report financial results. we also have or operate through a concentration of operations on certain sites, such as production and shared services centers, where business interruptions could cause material damage and costs. any interruption in capability may be lengthy and have lasting effects, require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, and require us to make substantial expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our operations, business processes and activities, profitability and financial condition. any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during a disruption of operations or any resultant longer-term loss of suppliers, sales or customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by the availability of products, parts and raw materials from our supply chain or the inability of suppliers to meet delivery requirements. our business relies on third-party suppliers, including contract manufacturing, and commodity markets to secure select finished goods and raw materials, parts and components used in our products, and we expect that reliance to increase. parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, batteries, pcbs and electronic components, as well as steel, brass, nickel, copper, aluminum and plastics. we are exposed to the availability of these parts, materials and finished goods, which may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, changes in the strategy or production planning of suppliers including decisions to exit production of key components upon which we rely, interruptions in production by suppliers, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' capacity allocations to other purchasers, changes in trade protection measures including tariffs, exchange rates and prevailing price levels, ability to meet regulatory requirements, weather emergencies, effects of pandemics or acts of war or terrorism. any delay in our suppliers' abilities to provide us with necessary materials could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring and realignment plans and our restructuring and realignment may adversely affect our business. in recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring and realignment plans in an effort to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. in 2017, we undertook steps to advance a multi-year effort to transform many of our support functions and related technologies, including finance, human resources and procurement. challenges with the enabling technologies and delays in implementing planned restructuring and realignment activities have resulted in delayed realization of some the expected operational and financial benefits from such actions. as such, we may not be able to obtain all of the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring and realignment plans. additionally, as a result of these plans, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge or inefficiency during transitional periods and ongoing operations. realignment and restructuring require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. the successful implementation and execution of our restructuring and realignment actions are critical to achieving our expected cost savings as well as effectively competing in the marketplace and positioning us for future growth. factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of 15 regulatory matters including tax, matters involving certain third-party service providers selected to assist us, including staffing, technology and the service providers' compliance with the company's internal controls over financial reporting, and adverse economic market conditions. if our restructuring and realignment actions are not executed successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as well as our competitive position, business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. our strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. as part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets, technologies, product lines and customer channels that either complement or expand our existing business. we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. in addition, we cannot make assurances that any acquisition will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations or cash flow. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management attention from existing businesses and operations; integration of technology, operations personnel, and financial and other systems; potentially insufficient cybersecurity controls; insufficient internal controls over financial or compliance activities or financial reporting; the failure to realize expected synergies; the assumption of liabilities normally assumed with an acquisition as well as the possibility that we become exposed to substantial undisclosed liabilities or new material risks associated with the acquired businesses; and the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. failure to successfully execute our growth strategy via acquisitions and successfully integrate these acquisitions could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition or results of operations. failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including but not limited to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, other applicable anti-corruption legislation and data privacy and security laws, could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business and reputation. given our global operations, we are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, trade regulations, including export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or business partners have or may have violated applicable laws, regulations or policies, including anti-corruption laws, we are required to investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, termination of relationships with business partners and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and as a result might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. additionally, to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states, such as the california consumer protection act, and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the enforcement of data subject rights and public disclosure of significant data breaches. other countries, such as china, have enacted or are enacting data localization and security laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving legal and operational requirements impose significant costs of compliance that are likely to increase over time. any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions or civil penalties, damage to our reputation and might materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 16 our business is subject to foreign currency exchange rates fluctuations. we conduct approximately 51% of our business in various locations outside the united states. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency transaction exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, swedish krona, polish zloty, canadian dollar, british pound and australian dollar. change in the value of currencies of the countries in which we do business relative to the value of the u.s. dollar or euro could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, chinese yuan, british pound, canadian dollar, swedish krona and australian dollar. as the u.s. dollar fluctuates against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income can be impacted. for instance, our 2019 revenue decreased by 2.4% due to unfavorable foreign currency impacts. strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro and the currencies of the other countries in which we do business, could materially and adversely affect our sales growth in future periods. refer to item 7a. "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, technology, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract employees in senior management, engineering, technology, sales, project management and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer attractive compensation, benefits, training and development opportunities and build an inclusive and diverse culture in an increasingly competitive environment for talent, particularly in the fields of technology, innovation and data science. we will need to continue to develop qualified talent to support business growth and succession planning and to replace departing employees, all of which are important to our long-term success. a failure in effective succession planning, transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly-skilled personnel could adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. product defects, unanticipated use or inadequate disclosures with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. defects or inadequacies in manufacturing, design, software, security or service of our products (including such defects in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could create product safety, product security, regulatory or environmental risks, including personal injury, death, property or environmental damage. these events could lead to recalls, safety or security alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any liability claims. manufacturing, design, software, security or service defects or inadequacies may also result in contractual damages or credits being issued, which could impact our profitability. recalls, removals and liability and quality claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by a substantial amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project beyond our knowledge or control, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. changes in our effective tax rates and tax expenses may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in approximately 150 countries and 51% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2019 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates and tax expense, including: the geographic mix of jurisdictions in which profits are earned and taxed; the statutory tax rates and tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; 17 the resolution of tax issues arising from tax examinations by various tax authorities; and the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. xylem is regularly examined by various tax authorities throughout the world and the resolutions of these examinations do not typically have a significant impact on our effective tax rates and tax expenses but they could. additionally, in december 2017, the united states enacted tax reform legislation ( tax act ). the legislation implements many new u.s. domestic and international tax provisions. many aspects of the tax act have been clarified through regulations, however several aspects remain unclear and additional clarifying guidance is expected to be issued (by the internal revenue service ( irs ), the u.s. treasury department or via a technical correction law change), although it may not be clarified for some time. in addition, many u.s. states have not yet updated their laws to take into account the new federal legislation. as a result, there may be further impacts of the new law on our results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that the tax act, or interpretations under it, could change and could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2019 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,316 million as described under liquidity and capital resources." our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and damage our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses (or the business operations of previously owned entities). these proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, tax, intellectual property, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability and personal injury claims, privacy, employment, labor and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes. our continuing transition to connected or digital technologies and solutions has increased our exposure to intellectual property litigation and we expect that this risk will continue to increase as we execute on our innovation and technology priorities. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations, regulatory proceedings and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements and claims that could have an adverse effect on our reputation as well as an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. additionally, we may be required to change or cease operations at one or more 18 facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. the global and diverse nature of our operations, coupled with the increase in regulation and enforcement in many regions of the globe, means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. in addition, subsequent developments in legal and regulatory proceedings may affect our assessments and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. weather conditions and climate changes may adversely affect, or cause volatility in, our financial results. the unpredictable nature of weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures or weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business and may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. for example, heavy rain events due to climate change may increase demand for some of our xylemvue solutions that may help customers minimize water and storm water overflows. within the dewatering space, pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology and lowara brands. fluctuations in temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial hydronic applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our bell &amp; gossett brand. if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in the aggregate are important to our business. our intellectual property rights may provide us with competitive advantage because they may help us differentiate our technologies, products and services, including our growing portfolio of data analytics and digitally-enabled offerings. the intellectual property rights that we have or obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, misappropriated, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly given our international operations in countries where laws governing intellectual property rights are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention, misappropriation or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our products and offerings in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and could be affected by interference with the radio spectrum that we use. a significant portion of the offerings in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment use radio spectrum, which is subject to government regulation. to the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the united states or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. the 19 regulations that govern our use of the radio spectrum may change and the changes may require us to modify our products or seek new partnerships, either directly or due to interference caused by new consumer products allowed under the regulations. the inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, suitable partners for co-development may not be able to be secured by us. in the united states, our products are primarily designed to use licensed spectrum in the 900mhz range. if the fcc does not renew our existing spectrum licenses, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations at a commercially feasible price or at all. outside of the united states, certain of our products require the use of radio frequency and are subject to regulations. in some jurisdictions, radio station licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. our advanced and smart metering systems offering transmits to (and receives information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in licensed bands made available to us through strategic partnerships and are reliant to some extent on the licensed spectrum continuing to be available through our partners or our customers. we may be unable to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations or to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in the relevant markets at a commercially feasible price or at all. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2019 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $ 3 billion . in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, failure of the fcc to renew licenses, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any material charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. developments in environmental laws and regulations could impact our financial condition or results of operations. our operations, product and service offerings are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. 20 environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. 21 risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; stock repurchases or dividends; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards or product and service offerings; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute transformation, restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters or climate change considerations that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; uncertainty or instability arising from the global geopolitical environment or events or actual or potential global pandemics; fluctuations in foreign currency impacts; fluctuations in the budgets or spending of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation, governmental or regulatory body investigation, or tax examination; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; impact of trade protection measures including tariffs; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. risks related to our 2011 spin-off from itt corporation (now itt llc) our spin-off from itt may expose us to potential liabilities. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt (now itt llc) and exelis (acquired by harris inc.), itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information on foreign exchange risk. failure to retain our existing senior management, engineering, technology, sales and other key personnel or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to operate or grow our business. our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain or attract employees in senior management, engineering, technology, sales, project management and other key personnel. the ability to attract or retain employees will depend on our ability to offer attractive compensation, benefits, training and development opportunities and build an inclusive and diverse culture in an increasingly competitive environment for talent, particularly in the fields of technology, innovation and data science. we will need to continue to develop qualified talent to support business growth and succession planning and to replace departing employees, all of which are important to our long-term success. a failure in effective succession planning, transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. a failure to retain or attract highly-skilled personnel could adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, operating results or ability to operate or grow our business. product defects, unanticipated use or inadequate disclosures with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. defects or inadequacies in manufacturing, design, software, security or service of our products (including such defects in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products could create product safety, product security, regulatory or environmental risks, including personal injury, death, property or environmental damage. these events could lead to recalls, safety or security alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in liability claims being brought against us. although we have liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any liability claims. manufacturing, design, software, security or service defects or inadequacies may also result in contractual damages or credits being issued, which could impact our profitability. recalls, removals and liability and quality claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our financial results can be difficult to predict. our business is impacted by a substantial amount of short cycle, and book-and-bill business, which we have limited insight into, particularly for the business that we transact through our distributors. we are also impacted by large projects, whose timing can change based upon customer requirements due to a number of factors affecting the project beyond our knowledge or control, such as funding, readiness of the project and regulatory approvals. accordingly, our financial results for any given period can be difficult to predict. changes in our effective tax rates and tax expenses may adversely affect our financial results. we sell our products in approximately 150 countries and 51% of our revenue was generated outside the united states in 2019 . given the global nature of our business, a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates and tax expense, including: the geographic mix of jurisdictions in which profits are earned and taxed; the statutory tax rates and tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business; 17 the resolution of tax issues arising from tax examinations by various tax authorities; and the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. xylem is regularly examined by various tax authorities throughout the world and the resolutions of these examinations do not typically have a significant impact on our effective tax rates and tax expenses but they could. additionally, in december 2017, the united states enacted tax reform legislation ( tax act ). the legislation implements many new u.s. domestic and international tax provisions. many aspects of the tax act have been clarified through regulations, however several aspects remain unclear and additional clarifying guidance is expected to be issued (by the internal revenue service ( irs ), the u.s. treasury department or via a technical correction law change), although it may not be clarified for some time. in addition, many u.s. states have not yet updated their laws to take into account the new federal legislation. as a result, there may be further impacts of the new law on our results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that the tax act, or interpretations under it, could change and could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material. our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2019 , our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,316 million as described under liquidity and capital resources." our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing or borrow additional funds; limit our ability to pay future dividends; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest on our indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and increase the amount of interest expense that we must pay because some of our borrowings are at variable interest rates, which, as interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense. in addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. if we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to legal and regulatory proceedings. we are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the united states, any violation of which could potentially create substantial liability for us and damage our reputation. changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. from time to time we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses (or the business operations of previously owned entities). these proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, tax, intellectual property, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability and personal injury claims, privacy, employment, labor and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes. our continuing transition to connected or digital technologies and solutions has increased our exposure to intellectual property litigation and we expect that this risk will continue to increase as we execute on our innovation and technology priorities. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations, regulatory proceedings and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements and claims that could have an adverse effect on our reputation as well as an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. additionally, we may be required to change or cease operations at one or more 18 facilities if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. the global and diverse nature of our operations, coupled with the increase in regulation and enforcement in many regions of the globe, means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. in addition, subsequent developments in legal and regulatory proceedings may affect our assessments and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. weather conditions and climate changes may adversely affect, or cause volatility in, our financial results. the unpredictable nature of weather conditions, including heavy flooding, droughts and fluctuations in temperatures or weather patterns, including as a result of climate change, can positively or negatively impact portions of our business and may result in volatility for certain portions of our business, as well as the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. for example, heavy rain events due to climate change may increase demand for some of our xylemvue solutions that may help customers minimize water and storm water overflows. within the dewatering space, pumps provided through our godwin and flygt brands are used to remove excess or unwanted water. heavy flooding due to weather conditions drives increased demand for these applications. on the other hand, drought conditions drive higher demand for pumps used in agricultural and turf irrigation applications, such as those provided by our goulds water technology and lowara brands. fluctuations in temperatures result in varying levels of demand for products used in residential and commercial hydronic applications where homes and buildings are heated and cooled with hvac units such as those provided by our bell &amp; gossett brand. if we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, if third parties infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights, or if third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury, expend significant resources enforcing our rights or defending against such claims, or be prevented from selling products or services. we own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in the aggregate are important to our business. our intellectual property rights may provide us with competitive advantage because they may help us differentiate our technologies, products and services, including our growing portfolio of data analytics and digitally-enabled offerings. the intellectual property rights that we have or obtain, however, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage because they may not be sufficiently broad or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, misappropriated, independently developed, or designed-around, particularly given our international operations in countries where laws governing intellectual property rights are not highly developed, protected or enforced. our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention, misappropriation or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. in addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our products and offerings in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment are affected by the availability and regulation of radio spectrum and could be affected by interference with the radio spectrum that we use. a significant portion of the offerings in our measurement &amp; control solutions segment use radio spectrum, which is subject to government regulation. to the extent we introduce new products designed for use in the united states or another country into a new market, such products may require significant modification or redesign in order to meet frequency requirements and other regulatory specifications. in some countries, limitations on frequency availability or the cost of making necessary modifications may preclude us from selling our products in those countries. the 19 regulations that govern our use of the radio spectrum may change and the changes may require us to modify our products or seek new partnerships, either directly or due to interference caused by new consumer products allowed under the regulations. the inability to modify our products to meet such requirements, the possible delays in completing such modifications, and the cost of such modifications all could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, suitable partners for co-development may not be able to be secured by us. in the united states, our products are primarily designed to use licensed spectrum in the 900mhz range. if the fcc does not renew our existing spectrum licenses, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, there may be insufficient available frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations at a commercially feasible price or at all. outside of the united states, certain of our products require the use of radio frequency and are subject to regulations. in some jurisdictions, radio station licenses may be granted for a fixed term and must be periodically renewed. our advanced and smart metering systems offering transmits to (and receives information from, if applicable) handheld, mobile, or fixed network reading devices in licensed bands made available to us through strategic partnerships and are reliant to some extent on the licensed spectrum continuing to be available through our partners or our customers. we may be unable to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in some markets to sustain or develop our planned operations or to find partners or customers that have access to sufficient frequencies in the relevant markets at a commercially feasible price or at all. we may incur impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets which would negatively impact our operating results. we have a significant amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. as of december 31, 2019 , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $ 3 billion . in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if interim indicators suggest that a potential impairment could exist. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, failure of the fcc to renew licenses, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. any material charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot make assurances that we will pay dividends on our common stock or continue to repurchase our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans, and likewise our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases. the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay dividends. further, the timing and amount of the repurchase of our common stock under board approved share repurchase plans has similar dependencies as the payment of dividends and accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will repurchase our common stock. additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the board of directors, or make share repurchases will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing our dividend or delaying or curtailing share repurchases. there can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. developments in environmental laws and regulations could impact our financial condition or results of operations. our operations, product and service offerings are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns. in addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require operating and capital expenditures. 20 environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations. developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. certain members of our current and retired employee population are covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). we may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to our postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. the cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses and rates of future compensation increases. management develops each assumption using relevant plan and company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. our liquidity, financial position (including shareholders' equity) and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, actuarial experience, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. we make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. the macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. a significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans, could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. 21 risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain financing as needed; stock repurchases or dividends; announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards or product and service offerings; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; our ability to execute transformation, restructuring and realignment actions; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; natural or environmental disasters or climate change considerations that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; uncertainty or instability arising from the global geopolitical environment or events or actual or potential global pandemics; fluctuations in foreign currency impacts; fluctuations in the budgets or spending of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation, governmental or regulatory body investigation, or tax examination; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; impact of trade protection measures including tariffs; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. risks related to our 2011 spin-off from itt corporation (now itt llc) our spin-off from itt may expose us to potential liabilities. pursuant to the distribution agreement and certain other agreements with itt (now itt llc) and exelis (acquired by harris inc.), itt and exelis agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify itt and exelis for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide itt and exelis may be significant and could negatively impact our business. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that itt or exelis agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnities from itt and exelis will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that itt and exelis will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately were to succeed in recovering from itt and exelis any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. none. 22 item 2. properties we have approximately 380 locations in more than 55 countries. these properties total approximately 12 million square feet, of which more than 340 locations, or approximately 6.4 million square feet, are leased. we consider the offices, plants, warehouses and other properties that we own or lease to be in good condition and generally suitable for the purposes for which they are used. the following table shows our significant locations by segment: location state or country principal business activity approx. square feet owned or leased water infrastructure emmaboda sweden administration and manufacturing 1,197,000 owned stockholm sweden administration and research &amp; development 182,000 leased bridgeport nj administration and manufacturing 136,000 leased shenyang china manufacturing 125,000 owned yellow springs oh administration and manufacturing 112,000 owned quenington uk manufacturing 86,000 leased applied water morton grove il administration and manufacturing 530,000 owned montecchio italy administration and manufacturing 379,000 owned nanjing china manufacturing 363,000 owned auburn ny manufacturing 273,000 owned stockerau austria administration 234,000 owned strzelin poland manufacturing 185,000 owned cheektowaga ny manufacturing 147,000 owned vadodara india manufacturing and research &amp; development 133,000 leased measurement &amp; control solutions ludwigshafen germany manufacturing 318,000 owned texarkana ar manufacturing 254,000 owned uniontown pa manufacturing 240,000 leased dubois pa manufacturing 197,000 owned durham nc administration and research &amp; development 154,000 leased dubois pa manufacturing 137,000 leased regional selling locations dubai united arab emirates manufacturing 144,000 owned nottinghamshire united kingdom sales office 139,000 leased nanterre france sales office 139,000 leased langenhagen germany sales office 134,000 leased corporate headquarters rye brook ny administration 67,000 leased item 3. legal proceedings from time to time we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses (or the business operations of previously-owned entities). these proceedings may seek remedies relating to environmental matters, tax, intellectual property matters, acquisitions or divestitures, product liability and personal injury claims, privacy, employment, labor and pension matters, government contract issues and commercial or contractual disputes. see note 20 , "commitments and contingencies", of the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of part ii of this 10-k for information regarding certain legal and regulatory proceedings we are involved in. 23 item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. information about our executive officers the following information is provided regarding the executive officers of xylem as of february 6, 2020: name age current title other business experience during past 5 years patrick k. decker 55 president and chief executive officer (2014) president and chief executive officer, harsco corp. (diversified, worldwide industrial company) (2012) e. mark rajkowski 61 senior vp and chief financial officer (2016) senior vp and chief financial officer, meadwestvaco corp. (worldwide packaging company) (2004) david flinton 49 senior vp and chief innovation, technology &amp; products officer (2019), acting president, water infrastructure and europe commercial team (2019) senior vp and president, dewatering (2015) pak steven leung 63 senior vp and president, emerging markets (2015) vp, global sales, valves and controls, pentair plc (diversified, worldwide industrial manufacturing company) (2013) geri mcshane 46 vp, controller and chief accounting officer (2019) controller, accounting and reporting (2016) kenneth napolitano 57 senior vp and president, applied water systems and americas commercial team (2017) senior vp and president, applied water systems (2012) colin r. sabol 52 senior vp and president, measurement &amp; control solutions (2017) senior vp and president, analytics and treatment (2015) senior vp and president, dewatering (2013) kairus tarapore 58 senior vp and chief human resources officer (2015) senior vp and chief administrative officer, babcock &amp; wilcox company (energy and environmental technologies and services) (2013) claudia s. toussaint 56 senior vp, general counsel, chief sustainability officer and corporate secretary (2014) senior vp, general counsel and secretary, barnes group inc. (international industrial and aerospace manufacturing) (2012) note: date in parentheses indicates the year in which the position was assumed. 24 board of directors the following information is provided regarding the board of directors of xylem as of february 6, 2020: name title markos i. tambakeras chairman, xylem inc., former chairman, president and chief executive officer, kennametal, inc. jeanne beliveau-dunn former vice president and general manager, cisco systems, inc. curtis j. crawford, ph.d. president and chief executive officer, xceo, inc. patrick k. decker president and chief executive officer, xylem inc. robert f. friel former chairman, president and chief executive officer, perkinelmer, inc. jorge m. gomez executive vice president, chief financial officer, dentsply sirona, inc. victoria d. harker chief financial officer, tegna, inc. sten e. jakobsson former president and chief executive officer, abb ab steven r. loranger former chairman, president and chief executive officer, itt corporation surya n. mohapatra, ph.d. former chairman, president and chief executive officer, quest diagnostics incorporated jerome a. peribere former president and chief executive officer, sealed air corporation 25 part ii item 5. market for the registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market price and dividends our common stock trades publicly on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol xyl . as of january 31, 2020 , there were 10,046 holders of record of our common stock. dividends are declared and paid on the common stock at the discretion of our board of directors and depend on our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board. therefore, there can be no assurance as to what level of dividends, if any, will be paid in the future. in the first quarter of 2020 , we declared a dividend of $0.26 per share to be paid on march 26, 2020 for shareholders of record on february 27, 2020 . there were no unregistered offerings of our common stock during 2019 . fourth quarter 2019 share repurchase activity the following table summarizes our purchases of our common stock for the quarter ended december 31, 2019 : (in millions, except per share amounts) period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share (a) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (b) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (b) 10/1/19 - 10/31/19 $338 11/1/19 - 11/30/19 $338 12/1/19 - 12/31/19 $338 (a) average price paid per share is calculated on a settlement basis. (b) on august 24, 2015, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million in shares with no expiration date. the program's objective is to deploy our capital in a manner that benefits our shareholders and maintains our focus on growth. there were no shares repurchased under this program during the three months ended december 31, 2019 . there are up to $338 million in shares that may still be purchased under this plan as of december 31, 2019 . 26 performance graph cumulative total return the following graph compares the relative performance of our common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p 500 industrials index. this graph covers the period from december 31, 2014 through december 31, 2019 and assumes that $100 was invested on december 31, 2014 in our common stock, the s&amp;p 500 and the s&amp;p 500 industrials with the reinvestment of any dividends. xyl s&amp;p 500 s&amp;p 500 industrials index december 31, 2014 100 100 100 december 31, 2015 97 101 97 december 31, 2016 134 113 116 december 31, 2017 187 138 139 december 31, 2018 185 132 120 december 31, 2019 221 174 156 the graph is not, and is not intended to be, indicative of future performance of our common stock. this performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the sec or subject to the liabilities of section 18 of the securities exchange act of 1934, and should not be deemed incorporated by reference into any of our prior or subsequent filings under the securities act of 1933 or the securities exchange act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 27 item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data for the five years ended december 31, 2019 . this selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this report. year ended december 31, (in millions, except per share data) 2019 (a) (b) 2018 (b) 2017 (c) 2016 (c) 2015 results of operations data: revenue $ 5,249 $ 5,207 $ 4,707 $ 3,771 $ 3,653 gross profit 2,046 2,026 1,847 1,462 1,407 gross margin 39.0 % 38.9 % 39.2 % 38.8 % 38.5 % operating income 486 654 552 408 454 operating margin 9.3 % 12.6 % 11.7 % 10.8 % 12.4 % net income attributable to xylem 401 549 331 260 340 per share data: earnings per share: basic $ 2.23 $ 3.05 $ 1.84 $ 1.45 $ 1.88 diluted 2.21 3.03 1.83 1.45 1.87 basic shares outstanding 180.0 179.8 179.6 179.1 180.9 diluted shares outstanding 181.2 181.1 180.9 180.0 181.7 cash dividends per share $ 0.96 $ 0.84 $ 0.72 $ 0.62 $ 0.56 balance sheet data (at period end): cash and cash equivalents $ 724 $ 296 $ 414 $ 308 $ 680 working capital* 919 988 873 878 810 total assets 7,710 7,222 6,860 6,474 4,657 total debt 2,316 2,308 2,200 2,368 1,274 * the company calculates working capital as follows: net accounts receivable + inventories - accounts payable - customer advances. (a) the amounts shown for the year ended december 31, 2019 include a goodwill impairment charge of $148 million related to the aia goodwill reporting unit. refer to note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding goodwill. (b) the amounts shown for the years ended december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 reflect the acquisitions of both pure technologies ltd. and sensus. refer to note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding acquisitions. (c) the amounts shown for the years ended december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 reflect the the acquisition of sensus. 28 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. this discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations and the financial condition of our business. except as otherwise indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, xylem, we, us, our and the company refer to xylem inc. and its subsidiaries. this section of this form 10-k generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this form 10-k can be found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of the company's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2018. overview xylem is a leading global water technology company. we design, manufacture and service highly engineered products and solutions ranging across a wide variety of critical applications in utility, industrial, residential and commercial building services settings. our broad portfolio of solutions addresses customer needs across the water cycle, from the delivery, measurement and use of drinking water to the collection, test, treatment and analysis of wastewater to the return of water to the environment. our product and service offerings are organized into three reportable segments that are aligned around the critical market applications they provide: water infrastructure, applied water and measurement &amp; control solutions. water infrastructure serves the water infrastructure sector with pump systems that transport water from aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas; with filtration, ultraviolet and ozone systems that provide treatment, making the water fit to use; and pumping solutions that move the wastewater and storm water to treatment facilities where our mixers, biological treatment, monitoring and control systems provide the primary functions in the treatment process. we also provide sales and rental of specialty dewatering pumps and related equipment and services. additionally, our offerings use monitoring and control, smart and connected technologies to allow for remote monitoring of performance and enable products to self-optimize pump operations maximizing energy efficiency and minimizing unplanned downtime and maintenance for our customers. in the water infrastructure segment, we provide the majority of our sales directly to customers along with strong applications expertise, while the remaining amount is through distribution partners. applied water serves the water usage applications sector with water pressure boosting systems for heating, ventilation and air conditioning, and for fire protection systems to the residential and commercial building services markets. in addition, our pumps, heat exchangers and controls provide cooling to power plants and manufacturing facilities, circulation for food and beverage processing, as well as boosting systems for agricultural irrigation. in the applied water segment, we provide the majority of our sales through long-standing relationships with many of the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, with the remainder going directly to customers. measurement &amp; control solutions primarily serves the utility infrastructure solutions and services sector by delivering communications, smart metering, measurement and control technologies and critical infrastructure technologies that allow customers to more effectively use their distribution networks for the delivery, monitoring and control of critical resources such as water, electricity and natural gas. we also provide analytical instrumentation used to measure and analyze water quality, flow and level in clean water, wastewater, surface water and coastal environments. additionally, we offer software and services including cloud-based analytics, remote monitoring and data management, leak detection, condition assessment, asset management and pressure monitoring solutions. we also offer smart lighting solutions that improve efficiency and public safety efforts across communities. in the measurement &amp; control solutions segment, we generate our sales through a combination of long-standing relationships with leading distributors and dedicated channel partners as well as direct sales depending on the regional availability of distribution channels and the type of product. 29 key performance indicators and non-gaap measures management reviews key performance indicators including revenue, gross margins, segment operating income and margins, orders growth, working capital and backlog, among others. in addition, we consider certain non-gaap (or "adjusted") measures to be useful to management and investors evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented, and to provide a tool for evaluating our ongoing operations, liquidity and management of assets. this information can assist investors in assessing our financial performance and measures our ability to generate capital for deployment among competing strategic alternatives and initiatives, including, but not limited to, dividends, acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayment. excluding revenue, xylem provides guidance only on a non-gaap basis due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting certain amounts that would be included in gaap earnings, such as discrete tax items, without unreasonable effort. these adjusted metrics are consistent with how management views our business and are used to make financial, operating and planning decisions. these metrics, however, are not measures of financial performance under gaap and should not be considered a substitute for revenue, operating income, net income, earnings per share (basic and diluted) or net cash from operating activities as determined in accordance with gaap. we consider the following items to represent non-gaap measures as well as the related reconciling items to the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with gaap. the non-gaap measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, to be key performance indicators: "organic revenue" and "organic orders" defined as revenue and orders, respectively, excluding the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency translation and contributions from acquisitions and divestitures. divestitures include sales of insignificant portions of our business that did not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation. the period-over-period change resulting from foreign currency translation impacts is determined by translating current period and prior period activity using the same currency conversion rate. "constant currency" defined as financial results adjusted for foreign currency translation impacts by translating current period and prior period activity using the same currency conversion rate. this approach is used for countries whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar. "adjusted net income" and "adjusted earnings per share" defined as net income and earnings per share, respectively, adjusted to exclude, as applicable, restructuring and realignment costs, special charges, tax-related special items and gains and losses from the sale of a business. a reconciliation of adjusted net income is provided below. (in millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 net income &amp; earnings per share $ 401 $ 2.21 $ 549 $ 3.03 restructuring and realignment, net of tax of $19 and $12 63 0.35 36 0.20 special charges, net of tax of $6 and $1 172 0.95 12 0.07 tax-related special items (88 ) (0.48 ) (75 ) (0.42 ) (gain) loss from sale of business, net of tax benefit of $0 (1 ) (0.01 ) adjusted net income &amp; adjusted earnings per share $ 547 $ 3.02 $ 522 $ 2.88 "adjusted operating expenses" and "adjusted gross profit" defined as operating expenses and gross profit, respectively, adjusted to exclude restructuring and realignment costs and special charges. "adjusted operating income" defined as operating income, adjusted to exclude restructuring and realignment costs and special charges, and "adjusted operating margin" defined as adjusted operating income divided by total revenue. realignment costs defined as costs not included in restructuring costs that are incurred as part of actions taken to reposition our business, including items such as professional fees, severance, relocation, travel, facility set-up and other costs. "sensus acquisition related costs" defined as costs incurred by the company associated with the acquisition of sensus that are being reported within operating income. these costs include integration costs, acquisition costs, costs related to the recognition of the backlog intangible asset amortization recorded in purchase accounting. 30 special charges" defined as costs incurred by the company, such as acquisition and integration related costs not included in "sensus acquisition related costs", non-cash impairment charges and other special non-operating items, such as pension adjustments. "tax-related special items" defined as tax items, such as tax return versus tax provision adjustments, tax exam impacts, tax law change impacts, excess tax benefits/losses and other discrete tax adjustments. "free cash flow" defined as net cash from operating activities, as reported in the statement of cash flows, less capital expenditures as well as adjustments for other significant items that impact current results which management believes are not related to our ongoing operations and performance. our definition of "free cash flow" does not consider certain non-discretionary cash payments, such as debt. the following table provides a reconciliation of free cash flow. (in millions) 2019 2018 net cash provided by operating activities $ 839 $ 586 capital expenditures (226 ) (237 ) free cash flow $ 613 $ 349 cash paid for sensus acquisition related costs 1 free cash flow, excluding sensus acquisition related costs $ 613 $ 350 net cash used in investing activities $ (231 ) $ (643 ) net cash used by financing activities $ (177 ) $ (40 ) ebitda defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense and "adjusted ebitda" reflects the adjustment to ebitda to exclude share-based compensation charges, restructuring and realignment costs, gain or loss from sale of businesses and special charges. (in millions) 2019 2018 net income $ 401 $ 549 income tax expense 15 36 interest expense (income), net 62 78 depreciation 117 117 amortization 140 144 ebitda $ 735 $ 924 share-based compensation 29 30 restructuring and realignment 82 47 special charges 178 12 (gain) loss from sale of business (1 ) adjusted ebitda $ 1,023 $ 1,013 31 executive summary xylem reported revenue of $5,249 million for 2019 , an increase of $42 million , or 0.8% , from $5,207 million reported in 2018 . on a constant currency basis, revenue increased by $166 million , or 3.2% , primarily consisting of organic revenue growth of $188 million , or 3.6% , driven by growth in all end markets and across all segments. a net decrease in revenue related to acquisition and divestiture impacts of $22 million partially offset the organic revenue growth during the year. operating income for 2019 was $486 million , reflecting a decrease of $168 million , or 25.7% , compared to $654 million in 2018 . operating margin was 9.3% for 2019 versus 12.6% for 2018 , a decrease of 330 basis points. operating margin was negatively impacted by increased special charges of $147 million, consisting entirely of non-cash impairment charges, and increased restructuring and realignment costs of $34 million during the year. excluding the impact of these items, adjusted operating income was $727 million , with an adjusted operating margin of 13.9% in 2019 as compared to adjusted operating income of $714 million with an adjusted operating margin of 13.7% in 2018 . the slight increase in adjusted operating margin was primarily due to cost reductions from our global procurement and productivity initiatives, including restructuring savings, improved price realization and favorable volume impacts. these impacts were partially offset by cost inflation, unfavorable mix, increased spending on strategic investments and increased cost of quality. additional financial highlights for 2019 include the following: net income attributable to xylem of $401 million , or $2.21 per diluted share ( $547 million or $3.02 per diluted share on an adjusted basis, up 4.8% from 2018 ) cash from operating activities of $839 million , and free cash flow, excluding sensus acquisition related costs, of $613 million up 75% from 2018 orders of $ 5,339 million , down 1.8% from $ 5,437 million in 2018 (up 0.9% on an organic basis) dividends paid to shareholders increased 14% in 2019 . 2020 business outlook we anticipate total revenue growth of approximately 1% in 2020 , with organic revenue growth anticipated to be in the range of 1% to 3%. the following is a summary of our 2019 organic revenue performance and 2020 organic revenue outlook by end market. utilities increased approximately 6% for 2019 on an organic basis driven by strength in the united states, the emerging markets and western europe, partially offset by weakness in canada. for 2020 , we expect organic growth in the low-single-digit range driven by healthy water and wastewater spending in the united states, smart meter and infrastructure analytics growth opportunities and steady low-single-digit growth in europe. we also anticipate a healthy infrastructure investment focus in the emerging markets will continue in china, india and africa. industrial increased by approximately 1% for 2019 on an organic basis driven by strength in the united states, europe and the middle east and africa, partially offset by weakness in latin america and canada. for 2020 , we expect organic revenue to remain relatively flat driven by soft growth within the north america dewatering business during the first half of the year, as oil and gas markets continue to be soft. we anticipate mixed market conditions outside of the united states with modest strength in asia pacific offset by softness in the middle east due to geopolitical and economic uncertainty. we anticipate that europe will remain relatively flat during the year. in the commercial markets, organic growth was approximately 3% for 2019 driven by strength in the emerging markets and north america, partially offset by weakness in western europe. for 2020 , we expect organic growth in the low-single-digit range as we anticipate that soft overall market conditions will recover during the second half of the year driven by continued strength in the united states and solid market conditions in europe. the emerging markets will also continue to drive organic growth, led by initiatives in the china and india building markets. in residential markets, organic growth was approximately 2% in 2019 driven by strength in the united states and asia pacific, partially offset by weakness in western europe and the middle east and africa. for 2020 , we expect low-single-digit growth primarily driven by the united states housing market and a strong outlook in europe. we also anticipate modest growth opportunities for a second water supply in china and other countries within asia. 32 we will continue to strategically execute restructuring and realignment actions primarily to reposition our european and north american businesses in an effort to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. during 2019 , we incurred $53 million and $29 million in restructuring and realignment costs, respectively. we realized approximately $6 million of incremental net savings in 2019 from actions initiated in 2018, and an additional $16 million of net savings from our 2019 actions. as a result of our 2018 and 2019 actions we expect to realize approximately $25 million of incremental net savings in 2020 and beyond. during 2020 , we currently expect to incur between $35 million and $45 million in restructuring and realignment costs. we plan to continue to take actions and focus spending in 2020 on actions that allow us to make progress on our top strategic priorities. the priority of accelerating profitable growth encompasses our initiatives to drive commercial leadership, grow in emerging markets and strengthen innovation and technology through creation of new centers of excellence, a streamlined approach to product development and strategic acquisitions. the priority of driving continuous improvement is an area where we will continue to work to create new opportunities to unlock savings by eliminating waste and increasing efficiencies, which is supported by efforts to expand and further deepen our talent pool. we plan to continue to deploy capital in smart, disciplined ways to develop and acquire solutions to address our customers' challenges. finally, we continue to work to improve cash performance and generate capital to return to our shareholders. 33 results of operations (in millions) 2019 2018 2019 v. 2018 revenue $ 5,249 $ 5,207 0.8 % gross profit 2,046 2,026 1.0 % gross margin 39.0 % 38.9 % 10 bp restructuring and realignment costs 5 5 % adjusted gross profit 2,051 2,031 1.0 % adjusted gross margin 39.1 % 39.0 % 10 bp total operating expenses 1,560 1,372 13.7 % expense to revenue ratio 29.7 % 26.3 % 340 bp restructuring and realignment costs (77 ) (43 ) 79.1 % special charges (159 ) (12 ) nm adjusted operating expenses 1,324 1,317 0.5 % adjusted operating expenses to revenue ratio 25.2 % 25.3 % (10 )bp operating income 486 654 (25.7 )% operating margin 9.3 % 12.6 % (330 )bp interest and other non-operating expense (income), net 71 69 2.9 % gain (loss) from sale of business 1 nm income tax expense 15 36 (58.3 )% tax rate 3.7 % 6.1 % (240 )bp net income $ 401 $ 549 (27.0 )% nm not meaningful 2019 versus 2018 revenue revenue generated for 2019 was $5,249 million , an increase of $42 million , or 0.8% , compared to $5,207 million in 2018 . on a constant currency basis, revenue grew 3.2% during 2019 . this increase in revenue at constant currency was primarily driven by an increase in organic revenue of $188 million reflecting strong organic growth in the united states and the emerging markets, with the exception of latin america, partially offset by declines in canada and western europe. a net decrease in revenue related to acquisition and divestiture impacts of $22 million partially offset organic growth during the year. the following table illustrates the impact from organic growth, recent acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign currency translation in relation to revenue during 2019 : water infrastructure applied water measurement &amp; control solutions total xylem (in millions) $ change % change $ change % change $ change % change $ change % change 2018 revenue $ 2,176 $ 1,534 $ 1,497 $ 5,207 organic growth 71 3.3 % 36 2.3 % 81 5.4 % 188 3.6 % acquisitions/(divestitures) % % (22 ) (1.5 )% (22 ) (0.4 )% constant currency 71 3.3 % 36 2.3 % 59 3.9 % 166 3.2 % foreign currency translation (a) (70 ) (3.2 )% (29 ) (1.9 )% (25 ) (1.7 )% (124 ) (2.4 )% total change in revenue 1 % 7 0.5 % 34 2.3 % 42 0.8 % 2019 revenue $ 2,177 $ 1,541 $ 1,531 $ 5,249 (a) foreign currency translation impact for the year primarily due to the weakening in value of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, the largest being the euro, the chinese yuan, the british pound, the swedish krona and the australian dollar. 34 water infrastructure water infrastructure revenue slightly increased $1 million to $2,177 million in 2019 ( 3.3% increase on a constant currency basis) compared to 2018 . revenue was negatively impacted by $70 million of foreign currency translation, with the change at constant currency coming entirely from organic growth during the year of $71 million . organic growth for the year was driven by strength in the utility end market, particularly in the united states, where we benefited from healthy order intake and strong market conditions across both applications. the utility end market also saw growth in asia pacific and western europe driven by strong project deployments during the year. the industrial end market has remained relatively flat during the year with organic growth in the emerging markets and the united states, where we benefited from solid order intake and a strong mining market over the first half of the year, which was partially offset by declines in western europe due to the timing of project deployments in the prior year. organic growth in both end markets also benefited from price realization during the year. from an application perspective, organic revenue growth for the year was primarily driven by our transport application. the transport application had strong organic revenue growth driven by project deliveries and price realization in the united states and the emerging markets. organic growth from the global dewatering application was also up modestly for the year, with strong growth in first half of the year, coming from strength in construction and mining in the united states and australia, being offset by rental revenue declines in north america in the second half of the year driven by a sharp drop off in oil and gas. organic revenue from our treatment application also contributed to the segment's growth driven by project deliveries in the united states and asia pacific where we benefited from strong order intake coming into the year. this organic growth was partially offset by declines in the middle east and latin america, primarily due to the lapping of large treatment project deliveries in these regions in the prior year. applied water applied water revenue increased $7 million , or 0.5% , in 2019 (2.3% increase on a constant currency basis) compared to 2018. revenue was negatively impacted by $29 million of foreign currency translation, with the change at constant currency coming entirely from organic growth during the year of $36 million . organic growth for the year was primarily driven by strength in the commercial end market, as well as prudent growth in the industrial and residential end markets. from an application perspective, organic revenue growth during the year was led by strength in the building services application in the commercial market which was driven by market expansion in the emerging markets, primarily in the middle east &amp; africa, and product localization in china, partially offset by softness in western europe. the industrial water application had modest organic growth during the year, primarily driven by market growth in western europe, coupled with customers stocking orders due to geopolitical concerns, and strength in the united states, partially offset by some declines in the emerging market regions. organic growth in building services application in the residential market came primarily from healthy market growth in the united states and strong second water supply business in china, which was partially offset by declines in western europe and the middle east. organic growth within the segment also benefited from price realization during the year. measurement &amp; control solutions measurement &amp; control solutions revenue increased $34 million , or 2.3% , in 2019 ( 3.9% increase on a constant currency basis) compared to 2018. revenue was negatively impacted by $25 million of foreign currency translation during the year. revenue growth at constant currency was made up of organic revenue growth of $81 million , or 5.4% , which was partially offset by $22 million of reduced revenue related to the net acquisition and divestiture impacts during the year. organic revenue growth for the year was driven by strength in the utility end market, primarily in the united states and the middle east, partially offset by declines in the united kingdom. from an application perspective, organic revenue from the water metrology application contributed the majority of the organic growth for the segment, with large project deployments in the united states, the middle east and western europe during the year. the energy application also contributed to the organic growth during the year as gas project deployments more than offset the timing of a large electric project deployment in the prior year in the united states . this organic growth was partially offset by a decline in the software as a service ("saas") and other application primarily due to the timing of a large software sale in the prior year in the united kingdom. the test application remained relatively flat as compared to the prior year. 35 orders/backlog an order represents a legally enforceable, written document that includes the scope of work or services to be performed or equipment to be supplied to a customer, the corresponding price and the expected delivery date for the applicable products or services to be provided. an order often takes the form of a customer purchase order ( p.o. ) or a signed quote from a xylem business. orders received during 2019 decreased by $98 million , or 1.8% , to $ 5,339 million ( 0.6% increase on a constant currency basis). order intake during the year was negatively impacted by $129 million of foreign currency translation. the order growth on a constant currency basis primarily consisted of organic order growth of $48 million , or 0.9% , over the prior year. net acquisition and divestiture activity of $17 million negatively impacted order growth during the year. the following table illustrates the impact from organic growth, recent acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign currency translation in relation to orders during 2019 : water infrastructure applied water measurement &amp; control solutions total xylem (in millions) $ change % change $ change % change $ change % change $ change % change 2018 orders $ 2,255 $ 1,557 $ 1,625 $ 5,437 organic growth 53 2.4 % 28 1.8 % (33 ) (2.0 )% 48 0.9 % acquisitions/(divestitures) % % (17 ) (1.0 )% (17 ) (0.3 )% constant currency 53 2.4 % 28 1.8 % (50 ) (3.1 )% 31 0.6 % foreign currency translation (a) (74 ) (3.3 )% (29 ) (1.9 )% (26 ) (1.6 )% (129 ) (2.4 )% total change in orders (21 ) (0.9 )% (1 ) (0.1 )% (76 ) (4.7 )% (98 ) (1.8 )% 2019 orders $ 2,234 $ 1,556 $ 1,549 $ 5,339 (a) foreign currency translation impact for the year primarily due to the weakening in value of various currencies against the u.s. dollar, the largest being the euro, the chinese yuan, the british pound, the swedish krona and the australian dollar. water infrastructure water infrastructure segment orders decreased $21 million , or 0.9% , to $2,234 million ( 2.4% increase on a constant currency basis). order intake during the year was negatively impacted by $74 million of foreign currency translation. the order increase on a constant currency basis was driven by organic order growth in the transport application. transport organic order growth was primarily driven by a large smart city project order secured in india during the second half of the year and strong market conditions, coupled with some price realization, in europe, china and north america. organic orders for the treatment application declined during the year, primarily driven by project timing in north america and india due to the timing of large project orders in the prior year, partially offset by strong order intake in the middle east during the year. applied water applied water segment orders slightly decreased $1 million to $1,556 million ( 1.8% increase on a constant currency basis). order intake during the year was negatively impacted by $29 million of foreign currency translation. the order increase on a constant currency basis was driven by strong organic order growth in the united states and china across both applications, which were partially offset by a reduction of orders in the middle east. measurement &amp; control solutions measurement &amp; control solutions segment orders decreased $ 76 million , or 4.7% , to $1,549 million ( 3.1% decrease on a constant currency basis). order intake during the year was negatively impacted by $26 million of foreign currency translation. the order decrease on a constant currency basis was driven by an organic decline of $33 million , or 2.0% , which followed a difficult comparison to the prior year organic order growth of 18%, and $17 million of the net acquisition and divestiture impacts on the year. the decrease in organic orders during the year was driven by the energy application decline in north america, which had a significant electric deployment order in the prior year that did not repeat. water application orders grew organically during the year driven by strong order intake within the aia platform, partially offset by the lapping of large prior year orders for metrology projects, coupled with some softening market conditions, in north america and the middle east. saas and other experienced modest organic growth during the year, driven by order strength in north america, largely offset by the lapping of a 36 large uk software order in the prior year. organic orders for the test application declined during the quarter driven by project timing and soft market conditions in europe. backlog backlog includes orders on hand as well as contractual customer agreements at the end of the period. delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. annual or multi-year contracts are subject to rescheduling and cancellation by customers due to the long-term nature of the contracts. as such, beginning total backlog, plus orders, minus revenues, will not equal ending total backlog due to contract adjustments, foreign currency fluctuations, and other factors. typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and deployment schedules and delays can occur from time to time. total backlog was $1,801 million at december 31, 2019 and $1,689 million at december 31, 2018 , an increase of 6.6% . we anticipate that approximately 60% of our total backlog at december 31, 2019 will be recognized as revenue during 2020 . this is down from prior years due to the changing profile of our backlog which includes a greater portion of large multi-year projects. gross margin gross margin as a percentage of consolidated revenue increased 10 basis points to 39.0% in 2019 as compared to 38.9% in 2018 . the slight gross margin increase was primarily driven by cost reductions from global procurement and productivity improvement initiatives and price realization, which were partially offset by cost inflation and unfavorable mix. operating expenses (in millions) 2019 2018 change selling, general and administrative expenses ("sg&amp;a") $ 1,158 $ 1,161 (0.3 )% sg&amp;a as a % of revenue 22.1 % 22.3 % (20 )bp research and development expenses ("r&amp;d") 191 189 1.1 % r&amp;d as a % of revenue 3.6 % 3.6 % restructuring and asset impairment charges 63 22 186.4 % operating expenses $ 1,412 $ 1,372 2.9 % expense to revenue ratio 26.9 % 26.3 % 60 bp selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expenses sg&amp;a expenses decreased by $3 million (decrease of 0.3% ) to 22.1% of revenue in 2019 , as compared to 22.3% of revenue in 2018 . the improvement in sg&amp;a as a percent of revenue for the year was primarily driven by cost reductions from global procurement and productivity improvement initiatives, including restructuring savings, which were partially offset by cost inflation and additional investment in strategic growth initiatives. research and development ("r&amp;d") expenses r&amp;d expense was $191 million , or 3.6% of revenue, in 2019 as compared to $189 million , or 3.6% of revenue, in 2018 . additionally, we capitalized r&amp;d on external sale software of $59 million in 2019 as compared to $60 million in 2018 . our increased spending on r&amp;d is driven by development needs to drive new product growth. restructuring and asset impairment charges restructuring during 2019 , we incurred restructuring costs of $ 20 million , $ 5 million and $28 million in our water infrastructure, applied water and measurement &amp; control solutions segments, respectively. we incurred these charges related to actions taken in 2019 primarily as a continuation of our efforts to reposition our european and north american businesses to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. the charges included the reduction of headcount and consolidation of facilities within our measurement &amp; control solutions and water infrastructure segments, as well as headcount reductions within our applied water segment. during 2018 , we recognized restructuring costs of $9 million, $2 million and $9 million in our water infrastructure, applied water and measurement &amp; control solutions, respectively. these charges were incurred primarily in an effort to reposition our european and north american businesses to optimize our cost structure and improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness. the charges included the reduction of headcount and consolidation of facilities within our measurement &amp; control solutions and water infrastructure segments, as well as headcount reductions within our applied water segment. 37 the following is a rollforward of employee position eliminations associated with restructuring activities for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 : 2019 2018 planned reductions - january 1 69 47 additional planned reductions 674 206 actual reductions and reversals (547 ) (184 ) planned reductions - december 31 196 69 the following table presents expected restructuring spend: (in millions) water infrastructure applied water measurement &amp; control solutions corporate total actions commenced in 2019: total expected costs $ 19 $ 5 $ 28 $ $ 52 costs incurred during 2019 18 5 27 50 total expected costs remaining $ 1 $ $ 1 $ $ 2 actions commenced in 2018: total expected costs $ 8 $ 1 $ 7 $ $ 16 costs incurred during 2018 7 1 7 15 costs incurred during 2019 1 1 total expected costs remaining $ $ $ $ $ actions commenced in 2017: total expected costs $ 12 $ 7 $ 4 $ $ 23 costs incurred during 2017 5 4 2 11 costs incurred during 2018 2 1 1 4 costs incurred during 2019 1 1 2 total expected costs remaining $ 4 $ 2 $ $ $ 6 the water infrastructure, applied water, and measurement &amp; control solutions actions commenced in 2019 consist primarily of severance charges. the applied water actions are complete, the water infrastructure actions are expected to continue through q1 2020, and the measurement &amp; control solutions actions are expected to continue through the fourth quarter of 2020. the water infrastructure, applied water, and measurement &amp; control solutions actions commenced in 2018 consist primarily of severance charges and are complete. the water infrastructure, applied water, measurement &amp; control solutions and corporate actions commenced in 2017 consist primarily of severance charges and are expected to continue through 2021. as a result of the actions initiated in 2019, we achieved savings of approximately $15 million in 2019 and estimate annual future net savings beginning in 2020 of approximately $39 million, resulting in $24 million of incremental savings from the 2019 actions. asset impairment during the first and third quarter of 2019 we determined that certain assets within our measurement &amp; control solutions segment, including customer relationships, internally developed software, proprietary technology, and plant property &amp; equipment, were impaired. accordingly we recognized an impairment charge of $10 million during the year. refer to note 12, "goodwill and other intangible assets," for additional information. during the fourth quarter of 2018 we determined that certain software assets within our water infrastructure segment were impaired. accordingly we recognized an impairment charge of $2 million. goodwill impairment charge during the third quarter of 2019, the company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $148 million related to the advanced infrastructure analytics ( aia ) goodwill reporting unit. the impairment resulted from a downward revision of forecasted future cash flows. factors that contributed to the revised forecast in the third quarter include lower 38 than expected results as compared to prior forecasts, largely as a result of slower-than-expected conversion of pipeline opportunities to revenue. additionally, we have continued to invest in the aia platform ahead of the adoption curve, which has also impacted the near-term profitability of the business. these factors drove a decrease in the fair value, based on a discounted cash flow valuation, of the aia reporting unit that was below its carrying value as of july 1, 2019, requiring an impairment charge. refer to note 12, "goodwill and other intangible assets," for additional information. operating income operating income was $486 million (operating margin of 9.3% ) during 2019 , a decrease of $168 million , or 25.7% , when compared to operating income of $ 654 million (operating margin of 12.6% ) during the prior year. operating margin for the year was negatively impacted by increased special charges of $147 million, consisting entirely of non-cash impairment charges, and increased restructuring and realignment costs of $34 million as compared to the prior year. excluding these special charges and restructuring and realignment costs, adjusted operating income was $727 million (adjusted operating margin of 13.9% ) for 2019 as compared to adjusted operating income of $714 million (adjusted operating margin of 13.7% ) during the prior year. the slight increase in adjusted operating margin was primarily due to cost reductions from our global procurement and productivity initiatives, including restructuring savings, improved price realization and favorable volume impacts. these impacts were partially offset by cost inflation, unfavorable mix, increased spending on strategic investments and increased cost of quality. the table below provides a reconciliation of total and each segment's operating income to adjusted operating income, and a calculation of the corresponding adjusted operating margin: (in millions) 2019 2018 change water infrastructure operating income $ 365 $ 359 1.7 % operating margin 16.8 % 16.5 % 30 bp restructuring and realignment costs 31 20 55.0 % special charges 2 nm adjusted operating income $ 396 $ 381 3.9 % adjusted operating margin 18.2 % 17.5 % 70 bp applied water operating income $ 241 $ 236 2.1 % operating margin 15.6 % 15.4 % 20 bp restructuring and realignment costs 13 10 30.0 % adjusted operating income $ 254 $ 246 3.3 % adjusted operating margin 16.5 % 16.0 % 50 bp measurement &amp; control solutions operating (loss) income $ (67 ) $ 118 (156.8 ) % operating margin (4.4 )% 7.9 % (1,230 ) bp restructuring and realignment costs 38 18 111.1 % special charges 159 5 nm adjusted operating income $ 130 $ 141 (7.8 ) % adjusted operating margin 8.5 % 9.4 % (90 ) bp corporate and other operating loss $ (53 ) $ (59 ) (10.2 ) % special charges 5 nm % adjusted operating loss $ (53 ) $ (54 ) (1.9 ) % total xylem operating income $ 486 $ 654 (25.7 ) % operating margin 9.3 % 12.6 % (330 ) bp restructuring and realignment costs 82 48 70.8 % special charges 159 12 1,225.0 % adjusted operating income $ 727 $ 714 1.8 % adjusted operating margin 13.9 % 13.7 % 20 bp nm not meaningful 39 water infrastructure operating income for our water infrastructure segment increased $6 million , or 1.7% , during 2019 as compared to the prior year, with operating margin also increasing from 16.5% to 16.8% . operating margin was negatively impacted year-over-year by increased restructuring and realignment costs of $11 million and positively impacted by special charges of $2 million incurred in 2018 that did not recur in 2019. excluding these items, adjusted operating income increased $15 million , or 3.9% , with adjusted operating margin increasing from 17.5% to 18.2% . the increase in adjusted operating margin was primarily due to cost reductions from our global procurement and productivity initiatives, price realization and favorable volume, which were partially offset by cost inflation, unfavorable mix, increased cost of quality and increased spending on strategic investments. applied water operating income for our applied water segment increased $5 million , or 2.1% , during 2019 as compared to the prior year, with operating margin also increasing from 15.4% to 15.6% . operating margin was negatively impacted by increased restructuring and realignment costs of $3 million in 2019. excluding these restructuring and realignment costs, adjusted operating income increased $8 million , or 3.3% , with adjusted operating margin increasing from 16.0% to 16.5% . the increase in adjusted operating margin was primarily due to cost reductions from our global procurement and productivity initiatives and price realization, which were partially offset by cost inflation, including tariffs, increased cost of quality, unfavorable mix, unfavorable volume and increased spending on strategic investments. measurement &amp; control solutions operating income for our measurement &amp; control solutions segment decreased $185 million , or 156.8% , during 2019 as compared to the prior year, with operating margin also decreasing from 7.9% to (4.4)% . operating margin was negatively impacted by increased special charges of $154 million, consisting entirely of non-cash impairment charges, and increased restructuring and realignment costs of $20 million during the year. excluding these items, adjusted operating income decreased $11 million , or 7.8% , with adjusted operating margin decreasing from 9.4% to 8.5% . the decrease in adjusted operating margin was primarily due to cost inflation, increased spending on strategic investments and unfavorable mix impacts. purchase accounting impacts from acquisitions also negatively affected operating margin. these impacts were partially offset by cost reductions from our global procurement and productivity initiatives, favorable volume impacts and price realization. corporate and other operating loss for corporate and other decreased $6 million , or 10.2% , compared to the prior year, primarily due to $5 million of special charges incurred during 2018 that did not recur. excluding these costs, adjusted operating expense decreased $1 million , or 1.9% , compared to the prior year. interest expense interest expense was $67 million and $82 million for 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the decrease in interest expense for the year is primarily driven by the impact of cross currency swaps during the year and, to a lesser extent, additional interest expense that was incurred during 2018 related to debt to fund our acquisition of pure technologies ltd., which was repaid during 2019. see note 13, "derivative financial instruments" of our consolidated financial statements for a description of our cross currency swaps. see note 15, "credit facilities and debt" of our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities and long-term debt and related interest. income tax expense the income tax provision for 2019 was $15 million at an effective tax rate of 3.7% as compared to $36 million at an effective tax rate of 6.1% in 2018 . the 2019 effective tax rate differs from that of 2018 primarily due to the income tax benefit that resulted from changes in tax law in switzerland partially offset by the tax impact of the goodwill impairment charge on income before taxes in 2019. 40 other comprehensive (loss) income other comprehensive loss was $38 million in 2019 as compared to a loss of $111 million in 2018 . foreign currency translation contributed favorable impacts during the year of $113 million driven the strengthening of the british pound, the canadian dollar and the south african rand as compared to the u.s. dollar in 2019 versus the weakening of these currencies in the prior year. additionally, the weakening of the euro, chinese yuan and the australian dollar as compared to the u.s. dollar was less negative in 2019 than the weakening of these currencies in the prior year. these favorable currency translation impacts were partially offset by the movement in our euro net investment hedges during the quarter. the tax impact on the foreign currency translation related to the euro net investment hedges also contributed to the net favorable foreign currency translation movement during the year. partially offsetting these favorable drivers was the increased loss in postretirement benefit plans during the year, primarily actuarial losses. liquidity and capital resources the following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 change operating activities $ 839 $ 586 $ 253 investing activities (231 ) (643 ) 412 financing activities (177 ) (40 ) (137 ) foreign exchange (a) (3 ) (21 ) 18 total $ 428 $ (118 ) $ 546 (a) 2019 impact is primarily due to the strengthening of the chinese yuan, the canadian dollar, the indian rupee, the south african rand, the russian ruble and various other currencies against the u.s. dollar. sources and uses of liquidity operating activities during 2019 , net cash provided by operating activities was $839 million , compared to $586 million in 2018 . the $253 million year-over-year increase was primarily driven by improvement in working capital levels due to the improved management of inventory and collection of receivables, increase in cash from earnings and decreased payments for post-retirement obligations during the period, which were partially offset by an increase in cash tax payments. investing activities cash used in investing activities was $231 million in 2019 , compared to $643 million in 2018 . this decrease in cash used of $412 million was mainly driven by the $433 million spent on 2018 acquisitions, primarily the acquisition of pure technologies ltd., versus the $18 million spent for acquisition activity during the current year and modestly lower spending on capital expenditures compared to the prior year. this decrease is partially offset by $22 million of proceeds received for a divested business in 2018. financing activities cash used by financing activities was $177 million in 2019 , compared to $40 million in 2018 . the increase in cash used during the year was primarily due to higher levels of short-term debt related to acquisition financing in 2018 and an increase in dividends paid of $22 million during the period as compared to the prior year. these drivers are partially offset by the higher net repayment of $120 million of long-term debt in the prior year and a decrease in share repurchase activity of $19 million as compared to the prior year. funding and liquidity strategy our ability to fund our capital needs depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access to bank financing and the capital markets. historically, we have generated operating cash flow sufficient to fund our primary cash needs centered on operating activities, working capital, capital expenditures, strategic investments and dividends. if our cash flows from operations are less than we expect, we may need to incur debt or issue equity. from time to time, we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital 41 markets, and (iii) the current state of the economy. there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such financing will be available at all. we monitor our global funding requirements and seek to meet our liquidity needs on a cost effective basis. based on our current global cash positions, cash flows from operations and access to the commercial paper markets, we believe there is sufficient liquidity to meet our funding requirements. in addition, our existing committed credit facilities and access to the public debt markets would provide further liquidity if required. we anticipate that our present sources of funds, including funds from operations and additional borrowings, will provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources to meet our liquidity and capital needs in both the united states and outside of the united states over the next twelve months. credit facilities &amp; long-term contractual commitments see note 15, "credit facilities and debt" of our consolidated financial statements for a description of our credit facilities and long-term debt. non-u.s. operations for 2019 and 2018 , we generated 51% and 53% of our revenue from non-u.s. operations, respectively. as we continue to grow our operations in the emerging markets and elsewhere outside of the united states, we expect to continue to generate significant revenue from non-u.s. operations and expect that a substantial portion of our cash will be predominately held by our foreign subsidiaries. we expect to manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be acc essed. we may transfer cash from certain international subsidiaries to the u.s. and other international subsidi aries when we believe it is cost effective to do so. we continually review our domestic and foreign cash profile, expected future cash generation and investment opportunities and reassess whether there is a need to repatriate funds held internationally to support our u.s. operations. as of december 31, 2019 , we have provided a deferred tax liability of $9 million for net foreign withholding taxes and state income taxes on $505 million of earnings expected to be repatriated to the u.s. parent in the future. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our contractual commitments as of december 31, 2019 : (in millions) 2020 2021 - 2022 2023 - 2024 thereafter total debt obligations (1) $ 276 $ 600 $ 557 $ 900 $ 2,333 interest payments (1) (2) 76 122 80 418 696 lease obligations (3) 65 87 50 62 264 purchase obligations (4) 95 7 102 other long-term obligations reflected on the balance sheet 1 23 23 8 55 total commitments $ 513 $ 839 $ 710 $ 1,388 $ 3,450 in addition to the amounts presented in the table above, we have recorded liabilities for net investment hedges of $24 million and employee severance indemnities of $16 million. these amounts have been excluded from the contractual obligations table due to an inability to reasonably estimate the timing or amounts of such payments in individual years. further, benefit payments which reflect expected future service related to the company's pension and other postretirement employee benefit obligations are presented in note 16 , postretirement benefit plans of the consolidated financial statements and deferred income tax liabilities and uncertain tax positions are presented in note 7, "income taxes" of the consolidated financial statements, and as such, these obligations are not included in the above table. finally, estimated environmental payments and workers' compensation and general liability reserves are excluded from the table above. we estimate, based on historical experience, that we will spend approximately $2 million to $3 million per year on environmental investigation and remediation and approximately $5 million to $6 million per year on workers' compensation and general liability. at december 31, 2019 , we had estimated and accrued $3 million and $20 million related to environmental matters, and workers' compensation and general liability, respectively. (1) refer to note 15 , credit facilities and debt, of the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the use and availability of debt and revolving credit agreements. amounts represent principal payments of short-term and long-term debt including current maturities and exclude unamortized discounts. (2) amounts represent estimates of future interest payments on short-term and long-term debt outstanding as of december 31, 2019 . (3) refer to note 11, "leases" of the consolidated financial statements for further lease discussion. 42 (4) represents unconditional purchase agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms to purchase goods or services, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. purchase agreements that are able to cancel without penalty have been excluded. off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2019 , we have issued guarantees for the debt and other obligations of consolidated subsidiaries in the normal course of business. we have determined that none of these arrangements has a material current effect or is reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our consolidated financial statements, financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. we obtain certain stand-by letters of credit, bank guarantees and surety bonds from third-party financial institutions in the ordinary course of business when required under contracts or to satisfy insurance related requirements. as of december 31, 2019 , the amount of surety bonds, bank guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, and insurance letters of credit was $340 million . critical accounting estimates the preparation of financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are discussed in note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, of the consolidated financial statements. accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they are inherently uncertain, involve significant judgments, include areas where different estimates reasonably could have been used, and changes in the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results in these areas could differ from management's estimates under different assumptions or conditions. revenue recognition. xylem adopted the new guidance on recognizing revenue from contracts with customers as of january 1, 2018. in accordance with this new guidance xylem recognizes revenue in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled to for providing those goods and services. for each arrangement with a customer, we identify the contract, the associated performance obligations within the contract, determine the transaction price of that contract, allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation and recognize revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. the satisfaction of performance obligations in a contract is based upon when the customer obtains control over the asset. depending on the nature of the performance obligation, control transfers either at a particular point in time, or over time which determines the recognition pattern of revenue. for product sales, other than long-term construction-type contracts, we recognize revenue once control has passed at a point in time, which is generally when products are shipped. in instances where contractual terms include a provision for customer acceptance, revenue is recognized when either (i) we have previously demonstrated that the product meets the specified criteria based on either seller or customer specified objective criteria or (ii) upon formal acceptance received from the customer where the product has not been previously demonstrated to meet customer specified objective criteria. we recognize revenue on product sales to channel partners, including resellers, distributors or value-added solution providers at the point in time when the risks and rewards, possession, and title have transferred to the customer, which usually occurs at the point of delivery. revenue from performance obligations related to services is recognized over time, as the performance obligations are satisfied. in these instances, the customer consumes the benefit of the service as xylem performs. certain businesses also enter into long-term construction-type sales contracts where revenue is recognized over time. in these instances, revenue is recognized using a measure of progress that applies an input method based on costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs. we also recognize revenue for certain of these arrangements using the output method and measure progress based on shipments of product where control has transferred to the customer. 43 for all contracts with customers, we determine the transaction price in the arrangement and allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in the contract. judgment is required to determine the appropriate unit of account, and we separate out the performance obligations if they are capable of being distinct and if they are distinct within the context of the contract. the transaction price is adjusted for our estimate of variable consideration which may include a right of return, discounts, rebates, penalties and retainage. to estimate variable consideration, we apply the expected value or the most likely amount method, based on whichever method most appropriately predicts the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to. the method applied is typically based on historical experience and known trends. we constrain the amounts of variable consideration that are included in the transaction price, to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur or when uncertainties around the variable consideration are resolved. the adoption of the new revenue guidance did not provide materially different results from historical revenue guidance. income taxes. deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences will reverse. based on the evaluation of available evidence, we recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that we believe it is more likely than not we will realize these benefits. we periodically assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets and reflect any changes to our estimate of the amount we are more likely than not to realize in the valuation allowance, with a corresponding adjustment to earnings or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we look to the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback years and the feasibility of tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income. the valuation allowance can be affected by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and changes to future taxable income estimates. due to the tax act, we have recorded net foreign withholding taxes and state income taxes on earnings that are expected to be repatriated to the u.s. parent. we have not recorded any deferred taxes on the amounts that the company currently does not intend to repatriate as the determination of any deferred taxes on this amount is not practicable. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and to the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. furthermore, we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities or upon completion of the litigation process, based on the technical merits of the position. the tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. we adjust our liability for uncertain tax positions in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional tax expense would result. if a payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. business combinations. we record acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. all of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies and contingent consideration is recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. the application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, in order to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. these assumptions and estimates include a market participant's use of the asset and the appropriate discount rates for a market participant. our estimates are based on historical experience, information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and, when appropriate, includes assistance from independent third-party appraisal firms. significant assumptions and estimates include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the cost to build/recreate certain technology, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. these estimates are inherently uncertain and 44 unpredictable. in addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. goodwill and intangible assets. we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. we also review the carrying value of our finite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment when impairment indicators arise. we conduct our annual impairment test as of the first day of the fourth quarter. for goodwill, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that reporting unit. if the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then an impairment charge is recognized for that excess up to the amount of recorded goodwill. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units using an income approach. we estimate the fair value of our intangible assets with indefinite lives using either the income approach or the market approach. under the income approach, we calculate fair value based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. under the market approach, we calculate fair value based on recent sales and selling prices of similar assets. determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, particularly related to future operating results and cash flows. these estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and identification of appropriate market comparable data. in addition, the identification of reporting units and the allocation of assets and liabilities to the reporting units when determining the carrying value of each reporting unit also require judgment. goodwill is tested for impairment at either the operating segment identified in note 22 , segment and geographic data, of the consolidated financial statements, or one level below. the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets is based on estimates and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. significant changes to these estimates and assumptions could adversely impact our conclusions. actual future results may differ from those estimates. in the third quarter of 2019, the company revised its forecasted future cash flows for the aia business. factors that contributed to the revised forecast in the third quarter include lower than expected results as compared to prior forecasts, largely as a result of slower-than-expected conversion of pipeline opportunities to revenue. additionally, we have continued to invest in the aia platform ahead of the adoption curve, which has also impacted the near term profitability of the business. based on these factors we determined that there were indicators that the aia reporting unit's goodwill may be impaired, and accordingly, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of july 1, 2019. the results of the impairment test showed that the fair value of the aia reporting unit was lower than the carrying value, resulting in a $148 million goodwill impairment charge. as of december 31, 2019 the remaining goodwill balance in our aia reporting unit after recording the goodwill impairment charge was $171 million. also, during the third quarter of 2019, due to the factors discussed above, we assessed whether the carrying amounts of the aia reporting unit's long-lived assets may not be recoverable and therefore impaired. our assessment resulted in an impairment charge of $7 million, related to customer relationships, proprietary technology, software and property, plant and equipment. the charge was calculated using an income approach. if we do not achieve our forecasts, given that the fair value and the carrying value of the aia reporting unit were the same at july 1, 2019, it is possible that the goodwill of the aia reporting unit could be deemed to be impaired in a future period. during the fourth quarter of 2019 , we performed our annual impairment assessment and determined that the estimated fair values of our goodwill reporting units were substantially in excess of each of their carrying values. however, future goodwill impairment tests could result in a charge to earnings. we will continue to evaluate goodwill on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter and whenever events and changes in circumstances require us to do so. we determined that no impairment of the indefinite-lived intangibles existed as of the measurement date in 2019 . however, future indefinite-lived intangible impairment tests could result in a charge to earnings. we will continue to evaluate indefinite-lived intangibles on an annual basis as of the beginning of our fourth quarter and whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate there may be a potential impairment. postretirement plans. company employees around the world participate in numerous defined benefit plans. the determination of projected benefit obligations and the recognition of expenses related to these plans are dependent on various assumptions. these major assumptions primarily relate to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, mortality, health care inflation and years of service (some of which are disclosed in note 16 , postretirement benefit plans, of the consolidated financial statements) and other factors. actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized on a straight-line 45 basis only to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or projected benefit obligation, over the average remaining service period of active plan participants, or for plans with all or substantially all inactive participants, over the average remaining life expectancy. significant assumptions management develops each assumption using relevant company experience, in conjunction with market-related data for each individual country in which such plans exist. all assumptions are reviewed annually with third-party consultants and adjusted as necessary. the table included below provides the weighted average assumptions used to estimate our defined benefit pension obligations and costs as of and for the years ended 2019 and 2018 . 2019 2018 u.s. int'l u.s. int'l benefit obligation assumptions discount rate 3.25 % 1.80 % 4.50 % 2.60 % rate of future compensation increase nm 2.94 % nm 2.92 % net periodic benefit cost assumptions discount rate 4.50 % 2.60 % 3.75 % 2.43 % expected long-term return on plan assets 7.75 % 6.96 % 8.00 % 7.23 % rate of future compensation increase nm 2.92 % nm 2.93 % nm not meaningful. the pension benefits for future service for all the u.s. pension plans are based on years of service and not impacted by future compensation increases. we determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by evaluating both historical returns and estimates of future returns. specifically, the company analyzes the estimated future returns based on independent estimates of asset class returns and evaluates historical broad market returns over long-term timeframes based on the strategic asset allocation, which is detailed in note 16 , postretirement benefit plans, of the consolidated financial statements. based on the approach described above, the chart below shows weighted average actual returns versus the weighted average expected long-term rates of return for our pension plans that were utilized in the calculation of the net periodic pension cost for each respective year. 2019 2018 expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.09 % 7.34 % actual rate of return on plan assets 12.59 % (3.85 )% for the recognition of net periodic pension cost, the calculation of the expected return on plan assets is generally derived by applying the expected long-term rate of return to the market-related value of plan assets. the market-related value of plan assets is based on average asset values at the measurement date over the last five years. the use of fair value, rather than a calculated value, could materially affect net periodic pension cost. the weighted average expected long-term rate of return for all of our plan assets to be used in determining net periodic benefit costs for 2020 is estimated at 3.46% . we estimate that every 25 basis point change in the expected return on plan assets impacts the expense by $1 million. the discount rate reflects our expectation of the present value of expected future cash payments for benefits at the measurement date. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. we base the discount rate assumption on current investment yields of high-quality fixed income investments during the retirement benefits maturity period. the pension discount rate was determined by considering an interest rate yield curve comprising aaa/aa bonds, with maturities between zero and 30 years, developed by the plan's actuaries. annual benefit payments are then discounted to present value using this yield curve to develop a single-point discount rate matching the plan's characteristics. our weighted average discount rate for all pension plans effective january 1, 2020 , is 1.97% . we estimate that every 25 basis point change in the discount rate impacts the expense by $1 million. the rate of future compensation increase assumption reflects our long-term actual experience and future and near-term outlook. effective january 1, 2020 , our expected rate of future compensation is 3.04% for all pension plans. the estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of future compensation is less than $1 million. the assumed rate of future increases in the per capita cost of health care (the health care trend rate) is 6.53% for 2020 , decreasing ratably to 4.50% in 2028. an increase or decrease in the health care trend rates by one percent 46 per year would impact the aggregate annual service and interest components by less than $1 million, and impact the benefit obligation by approximately $3 million. we currently anticipate making contributions to our pension and postretirement benefit plans in the range of $15 million to $25 million during 2020 , of which $5 million is expected to be made in the first quarter. funded status funded status is derived by subtracting the respective year-end values of the projected benefit obligations from the fair value of plan assets. we estimate that every 25 basis point change in the discount rate impacts the funded status by approximately $33 million. fair value of plan assets the plan assets of our pension plans comprise a broad range of investments, including domestic and foreign equity securities, interests in private equity and hedge funds, fixed income investments, insurance contracts, and cash and cash equivalents. a portion of our pension benefit plan assets portfolio comprises investments in private equity and hedge funds. the private equity and hedge fund investments are generally measured at net asset value. however, in certain instances, the values reported by the asset managers were not current at the measurement date. accordingly, we made estimate adjustments to the last reported value where necessary to measure the assets at fair value at the measurement date. these adjustments consider information received from the asset managers, as well as general market information. the adjustment recorded at december 31, 2019 and 2018 for these assets represented less than one percent of total plan assets in each respective year. asset values for other positions were generally measured using market observable prices. we estimate that a 5% change in asset values will impact funded status by approximately $28 million. new accounting pronouncements see note 2, recently issued accounting pronouncements, of the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 47 item 7a . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. these exposures are actively monitored by management. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is due to certain costs, revenue and borrowings being denominated in currencies other than one of our subsidiaries' functional currency. similarly, we are exposed to market risk as the result of changes in interest rates which may affect the cost of our financing. it is our policy and practice to use derivative financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposures. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct approximately 51% of our business in various locations outside the united states. our economic foreign currency risk primarily relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. we may use derivative financial instruments to offset risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, when it is believed that the exposure will not be limited by our normal operating and financing activities. we enter into currency forward contracts periodically in order to manage the exchange rate fluctuation risk on certain intercompany transactions associated with third-party sales and purchases. these risks are also mitigated by natural hedges including the presence of manufacturing facilities outside the united states, global sourcing and other spending which occurs in foreign countries. our principal foreign currency transaction exposures primarily relate to the euro, swedish krona, polish zloty, canadian dollar, british pound, and australian dollar. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material economic impact to xylem's financial position and results of operations. additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. the translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the euro, chinese yuan, british pound, canadian dollar, swedish krona and australian dollar. as the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income will generally be negatively impacted, and if the u.s. dollar weakens, revenue and income will generally be positively impacted. we expect to continue to generate significant revenue from non-u.s. operations and we expect our cash will be predominately held by our foreign subsidiaries. we expect to manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. we may transfer cash from certain international subsidiaries to the u.s. and other international subsidiaries when it is cost effective to do so, though we continually review our domestic and foreign cash profile, expected future cash generation and investment opportunities and reassess whether there is a need to repatriate funds held internationally to support our u.s. operations. we also hedge our investment in certain foreign subsidiaries via the use of cross currency swaps and the designation of our 2.25% senior notes of 500 million aggregate principal amount due march 2023 as a net investment hedge. accordingly, we estimate that a 10% movement of the u.s. dollar to various foreign currency exchange rates we translate from, in aggregate would not have a material economic impact on our financial position and results of operations. effective july 1, 2018, argentina was determined to be a highly inflationary economy, and as such we evaluated the impact of revaluing our monetary assets and liabilities under the applicable guidance and do not expect it to have a material impact. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2019 , our long-term debt portfolio is primarily comprised of four series of fixed-rate senior notes that total $2.1 billion. the senior notes are not exposed to interest rate risk as the bonds are at a fixed rate until maturity. based on the current interest rate market we do not anticipate material risk associated with our debt refinancing within the target time frame of maturity. commodity price exposures for a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to item 1a. risk factors. 48