quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk................. 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company's business and activities. the extent to which the company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company's broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company's business activities: market risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and funding risk. funding risk is discussed in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. risk management at the company is a multi-faceted process with independent oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company's senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company's risk management policies, procedures and methodologies are evolutionary in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification. the management committee, composed of the company's most senior officers, establishes the overall risk management policies for the company and reviews the company's performance relative to these policies. the management committee has created several risk committees to assist it in monitoring and reviewing the company's risk management practices. these risk committees, as well as other committees established to manage and monitor specific risks, review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to the company's market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, legal enforceability, and operational and systems risks. the market risk, credit risk, controllers, treasury, and law and compliance departments (collectively, the "control groups"), which are all independent of the company's business units, assist senior management and the risk committees in monitoring and controlling the company's risk profile. the market and credit risk departments have operational responsibility for measuring and monitoring aggregate market and credit risk, respectively, with respect to the company's institutional trading activities and are responsible for risk policy development, risk analysis and risk reporting to senior management and the risk committees. in addition, the internal audit department, which also reports to senior management, periodically examines and evaluates the company's operations and control environment. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company's risk management and monitoring systems and processes. the following is a discussion of the company's risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company's securities trading (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company's market risk exposure generated by the company's statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. 54 market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. sound risk management is an integral part of the culture at the company. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using value-at-risk ("var") and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing conducted in collaboration with the business units by the market risk department. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during fiscal 2001, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices--and associated volatilities and spreads--related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads for credit-sensitive instruments). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of trading in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging through the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and reflects the company's aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company's senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for each major trading division of the company worldwide (equity, fixed income, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company's trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company's trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. reports summarizing material risk exposures are produced by the market risk department and are disseminated to senior management. 55 value-at-risk (var). the statistical technique known as var is one of the tools used by the company to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations. the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ("market risk factors"); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. in the case of the company's var, approximately four years of historical data are used to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company's 99%/one-day var corresponds to the negative change in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in 100 trading days. the company's var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company's var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and in corporate and high-yield bonds. for example, the model includes measures of name-specific risk for approximately 10,000 equity names and approximately 200 classes of corporate and high-yield bonds. var models such as the company's should be expected to evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. for example, during fiscal 2001, as part of the company's ongoing program of var model enhancement, position and risk coverage were broadened and risk measurement methodologies were refined for certain energy (natural gas and electricity) and fixed income products. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio's aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology's limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2001. the table below presents the company's var for each of the company's primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2001 and november 30, 2000, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company's institutional trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company's trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk was not covered, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions involved approximations that could be significant under certain circumstances. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. 56 aggregate var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions and (b) public-company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company. the incremental impact on var of these non-trading positions was not material as of november 30, 2001 and november 30, 2000, and, therefore, the table below does not separately report trading and non-trading vars. non-publicly traded principal investments made by the company are not reflected in the var results reported below. as of november 30, 2001, the aggregate carrying value of such investments was approximately $500 million. since var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company's future financial performance or its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company's actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than once in 100 trading days: 99%/one-day var at november 30, ----------------------------- 2001 2000 primary market risk category ---- ---- ---------------------------- (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate.................... $30 $28 equity price..................... 23 27 foreign exchange rate............ 6 5 commodity price.................. 24 17 --- --- subtotal......................... 83 77 less diversification benefit(1).. 41 35 --- --- aggregate var.................... $42 $42 === === - -------- (1)diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregate var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated 99%/one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each such category. the company's aggregate var at november 30, 2001 was unchanged from the prior year, as an increase in commodity price var, which primarily reflected a model enhancement resulting in improved capture of geographic basis risk, was offset by a higher diversification benefit. in order to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms, the company's aggregate var values at november 30, 2001 for other confidence levels and time horizons were as follows: $30 million for 95%/one-day var and $133 million for 99%/two-week var. the table below presents the high, low and average 99%/one-day trading var over the course of fiscal 2001 for substantially all of the company's institutional trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end var discussed above are excluded from this measure (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions): daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2001 ------------------------------ high low average primary market risk category ---- --- ------- ---------------------------- (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate............... $46 $23 $31 equity price................ 47 14 23 foreign exchange rate....... 13 2 6 commodity price............. 39 14 24 trading var................. $60 $35 $46 57 the histogram below presents the company's daily 99%/one-day var for its institutional trading activities during fiscal 2001: description of histogram: the horizontal axis of the chart categorizes the 99%/one-day value-at-risk into numerical ranges. the vertical axis of the chart indicates the number of trading days that value-at-risk fell into a given numerical range. the histogram shows that distribution of daily 99%/one-day value-at-risk during fiscal year 2001 was: value-at-risk (in millions of u.s. dollars) number of days - ---------------------------- --------------- greater than 57 3 55 to 57 1 53 to 55 5 51 to 53 6 49 to 51 26 47 to 49 33 45 to 47 51 43 to 45 43 41 to 43 39 39 to 41 19 37 to 39 17 35 to 37 11 less than 35 0 the histogram below shows the distribution of daily revenues during fiscal 2001 for the company's institutional trading businesses (net of interest expense and including commissions and primary revenue credited to the trading businesses): description of histogram: the horizontal axis of the chart categorizes daily net revenue of the institutional trading businesses into numerical ranges. the vertical axis of the chart indicates the number of trading days that revenue fell into a given numerical range. the histogram shows that distribution of daily institutional trading revenue during fiscal year 2001 was: daily institutional trading revenue (in millions of u.s. dollars) number of days - ----------------------------- -------------- less than -10 5 -10 to -5 2 -5 to 0 5 0 to 5 6 5 to 10 11 10 to 15 20 15 to 20 26 20 to 25 22 25 to 30 20 30 to 35 22 35 to 40 25 40 to 45 18 45 to 50 11 50 to 55 11 55 to 60 12 60 to 65 12 65 to 70 6 70 to 75 3 75 to 80 2 80 to 85 4 85 to 90 5 greater than 90 4 58 the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. there were no days during fiscal 2001 in which the company incurred daily mark-to-market losses (trading revenue net of interest income and expense and excluding commissions and primary revenue credited to the trading businesses) in its institutional trading business in excess of the 99%/one-day var. consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management. in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest-sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations; long-term borrowings; deposits; federal funds; and short-term bank notes. the company's interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company's right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations. for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. in fiscal 2001, a portion of the company's credit card receivables was repriced to a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate-sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company's normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate-sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the prime, commercial paper or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based 59 indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate-sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2001, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $71 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2000 was estimated to be approximately $62 million. the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2001 was greater as compared with the prior year, primarily due to the company's consumer loan portfolio comprising a greater proportion of receivables with a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end 2001 and the related impact of the funding supporting the company's consumer loans. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company's expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. credit risk. the company's exposure to credit risk arises from the possibility that a customer or counterparty to a transaction might fail to perform under its contractual commitment, which could result in the company incurring losses. with respect to its institutional securities activities, the company has credit guidelines that limit the company's current and potential credit exposure to any one customer or counterparty and to aggregates of customers or counterparties by type of business activity. the credit risk department administers limits, monitors credit exposure and periodically reviews the financial soundness of customers and counterparties on a worldwide basis. the company manages the credit exposure relating to its trading activities in various ways, including entering into master netting agreements, collateral arrangements, and limiting the duration of exposure. risk is mitigated in certain cases by closing out transactions, entering into risk-reducing transactions, assigning transactions to other parties or purchasing credit protection. with respect to corporate lending, the capital commitment committee, which is composed of senior managers from various departments within the company, reviews each loan request. the company manages the credit exposure on corporate loans in various ways, including the structure (collateral and seniority) of the loan and covenants. risk is mitigated in certain cases by selling participation interests in a loan to other lenders, selling loans or purchasing credit protection. 60 with respect to certain derivative transactions, the company requires collateral from its counterparties, principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities, to reduce default risk. the following table presents a summary of counterparty credit ratings for the replacement cost of over-the-counter derivatives in a gain position by maturity at november 30, 2001. in addition, collateral received by the company is presented by the credit rating of the counterparties providing the collateral. the following table includes credit exposure only from over-the-counter derivative transactions and does not include other credit exposures, such as the company's senior lending activities: years to maturity --------------------------------- cross-maturity net exposure net exposure credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 netting(2) pre-collateral post-collateral ---------------- ----------- ------ ------ ------- -------------- -------------- --------------- (dollars in millions) aaa................... $ 612 $ 882 $1,228 $ 3,626 $(1,518) $ 4,830 $ 2,891 aa.................... 3,288 3,576 1,990 4,730 (4,290) 9,294 6,469 a..................... 3,486 2,587 1,216 4,139 (1,842) 9,586 6,636 bbb................... 1,288 737 503 896 (495) 2,929 2,200 non-investment grade.. 1,693 851 763 734 (559) 3,482 2,736 ------- ------ ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- total.......... $10,367 $8,633 $5,700 $14,125 $(8,704) $30,121 $20,932 ======= ====== ====== ======= ======= ======= ======= - -------- (1) credit ratings are determined by external rating agencies or by equivalent ratings used by the company's credit risk department. (2) represents netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are net within such maturity category. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit card holders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company's credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company's criteria and historical data. each cardmember's credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember's credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover business services merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume. concentration risk. the company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry (see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). the company seeks to limit concentration risk through the use of systems and procedures described in the preceding discussions of market and credit risk. operational risk. operational risk refers generally to the risk of loss resulting from the company's operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the company's operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in the company's control processes. the company operates different businesses in diverse markets and is reliant on the ability of its employees and systems to process high numbers of transactions. these transactions may cross multiple markets and involve different currencies. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels. for 61 example, the company's securities business has procedures that require that all transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the company's books and records and are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations are subject to periodic independent review procedures; and that collateral and adequate documentation (e.g., master agreements) are obtained from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. with respect to its consumer lending activities, the company manages operational risk through its system of internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical systems on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the company also uses periodic self-assessments and internal audit reviews as a further check on operational risk. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and the risk that a counterparty's performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business. the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to ensure compliance with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the law and compliance department, also has established procedures that are designed to ensure that senior management's policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has various procedures addressing issues, such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty's performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. 62quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the prices used for financial 27 table of contents reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. in the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include periodic review of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading divisions. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the controllers and market risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model utilizes historical and statistical analysis to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. where the fair value of the transaction deviates significantly from the fair value derived from the model, the transaction fair value will be used to further refine the model input or statistical techniques in determining fair value in future periods. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional validation of the company recorded fair value for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information further validates the fair value of these otc derivative products. for more information regarding the company risk management practices, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. transfers of financial assets. the company engages in securitization activities in connection with certain of its businesses. gains and losses from securitizations are recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the company relinquishes control of the transferred financial assets in accordance with sfas no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities a replacement of fasb statement no. 125 and other related pronouncements. the gain or loss on the sale of financial assets depends in part on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale. in connection with its institutional securities business, the company engages in securitization transactions to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company recognizes any interests in the transferred assets and any liabilities incurred in securitization transactions in its consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. subsequently, changes in the fair value of such interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. in connection with its credit services business, the company periodically sells consumer loans through asset securitizations and continues to service these loans. the present value of the future net servicing revenues that the company estimates it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in income as the loans are securitized. a corresponding asset also is recorded and then amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized loans. the securitization gain or loss involves the company best estimates of key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward yield curves and appropriate discount rates. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different financial results. allowance for consumer loan losses. the allowance for consumer loan losses in the company credit services business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is an allowance applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio that is evaluated quarterly for adequacy. 28 table of contents in calculating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. the amount of the allowance is established through a process that begins with estimates of the losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio based on coverage of a rolling average of historical credit losses. in addition, the company regularly performs a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact future credit loss experience, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see credit services provision for consumer loan losses herein). aircraft under operating leases. aircraft under operating leases are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. in accordance with sfas no. 121, accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of, the company aircraft are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the aircraft may not be recoverable. under sfas no. 121, the carrying value of an aircraft may not be recoverable if its projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value. if an aircraft projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value, an impairment charge based on the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the aircraft is recognized. the fair value of the company impaired aircraft is based upon valuation information obtained from independent appraisal companies. estimates of future cash flows associated with the aircraft assets as well as the appraisals of fair value are critical to the determination of whether an impairment exists and the amount of the impairment charge, if any (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). on december 1, 2002, the company adopted sfas no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets (see new accounting pronouncements herein). 29 table of contents institutional securities statements of income (dollars in millions) fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 revenues: investment banking $ 2,240 $ 3,091 $ 4,492 principal transactions: trading 2,114 4,719 6,591 investments 41 (216 ) 100 commissions 2,073 1,816 1,577 asset management, distribution and administration fees 106 96 101 interest and dividends 13,069 20,727 17,150 other 414 438 385 total revenues 20,057 30,671 30,396 interest expense 10,789 19,117 16,304 net revenues 9,268 11,554 14,092 non-interest expenses 6,564 7,715 8,685 income before income taxes, dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, extraordinary item and cumulative effect of accounting change 2,704 3,839 5,407 provision for income taxes 914 1,317 1,815 dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption 87 50 28 income before extraordinary item and cumulative effect of accounting change 1,703 2,472 3,564 extraordinary item (30 ) cumulative effect of accounting change (46 ) net income $ 1,703 $ 2,396 $ 3,564 institutional securities provides a wide range of financial products, services and investment advice to institutional investors. institutional securities business activities are conducted in the u.s. and throughout the world and include investment banking, sales and trading, financing, market-making activities, full-service brokerage services, principal investing activities, aircraft financing activities and research. institutional securities achieved net revenues of $9,268 million and net income of $1,703 million in fiscal 2002, decreases of 20% and 29%, respectively, from fiscal 2001. institutional securities net income for fiscal 2001 included an extraordinary loss of $30 million associated with the early extinguishment of certain long-term borrowings and a charge of $46 million from the cumulative effect of an accounting change associated with the company adoption of sfas no. 133 on december 1, 2000. the decreases in net revenues and net income in fiscal 2002 were primarily attributable to lower revenues from the company sales and trading and investment banking activities, partially offset by lower non-interest expenses. in fiscal 2001, institutional securities net revenues and net income decreased 18% and 33%, respectively, from fiscal 2000. the decreases in net revenues and net income in fiscal 2001 were primarily attributable to lower revenues from the company investment banking and sales and trading activities, partially offset by lower levels of incentive-based compensation expense. the decrease in net revenues and net income also reflected principal investment losses in fiscal 2001 as compared with principal investment gains in fiscal 2000, as well as a higher level of expenses associated with the company aircraft financing business. 30 table of contents investment banking . investment banking revenues are derived from the underwriting of securities offerings and fees from advisory services. investment banking revenues were as follows: fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 (dollars in millions) advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions $ 962 $ 1,420 $ 2,144 equity underwriting revenues 534 775 1,537 fixed income underwriting revenues 744 896 811 total investment banking revenues $ 2,240 $ 3,091 $ 4,492 investment banking revenues decreased 28% in fiscal 2002, reflecting lower revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions. in fiscal 2001, the 31% decrease in investment banking revenues reflected lower revenues from equity underwriting transactions and merger, acquisition and restructuring activities, partially offset by higher fixed income underwriting revenues. conditions in the worldwide merger and acquisition markets were extremely difficult in fiscal 2002. there was $1.2 trillion of transaction activity announced during calendar year 2002 (according to thomson financial), a decrease of 29% from calendar year 2001. during calendar year 2002, the company volume of announced merger and acquisition transactions was approximately $210 billion as compared with approximately $460 billion in the prior year, a decrease of 54%. the number of transactions and the average transaction size fell significantly during fiscal 2002 as compared with fiscal 2001, primarily reflecting the difficult global market and economic conditions that existed during the period. increased concerns over corporate accounting and governance issues and declining global equity prices also had a negative impact on the volume of advisory transactions, which contributed to a 32% decrease in revenues in fiscal 2002. in fiscal 2001, sharp declines in the volume of merger and acquisition transaction activity were experienced across many industries and geographic locations and had a negative impact on advisory fees, which decreased 34%. the declines in the global equity markets during fiscal 2001 negatively affected transaction activity by reducing the purchasing power of potential acquirers. equity underwriting revenues decreased 31% in fiscal 2002 and 50% in fiscal 2001, reflecting significantly lower volumes of equity offerings in the global equity markets, principally in the u.s. and europe. the decline in new issue volume in both periods reflected the difficult conditions that existed in the global equity markets, including the technology, media and telecommunications sectors. the decrease in fiscal 2002 also was due to lower revenues from underwriting convertible securities. the decrease in fiscal 2001 was partially offset by a record level of revenues from underwriting convertible securities. fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 17% in fiscal 2002, primarily reflecting less favorable market conditions, including volatile credit spreads due to an increase in credit risks associated with certain issuers. these conditions contributed to a lower level of investment grade and structured credit underwriting transactions. this decrease was partially offset by higher revenues from underwriting municipal fixed income securities. fixed income underwriting revenues increased 10% in fiscal 2001. the volume of fixed income underwriting transactions in fiscal 2001 reflected a lower interest rate environment in both the u.s. and europe, resulting in issuers taking advantage of historically low yields rendered by the fed and the ecb interest rate actions. the volume of fixed income underwriting transactions was generally strong throughout fiscal 2001, particularly in investment grade products and structured credit transactions. given current market and economic conditions, it is uncertain at what pace investment banking transactions will occur in future periods. sales and trading revenues . sales and trading revenues are composed of principal transaction trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues. in assessing the profitability of its business activities, the company views principal trading, commissions and net interest revenues in the aggregate. in addition, decisions 31 table of contents relating to principal transactions in securities are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. this review includes an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a trade, including any associated commissions, and the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the company positions. the components of the company sales and trading revenues are described below: principal transactions. principal transaction trading revenues include revenues from customers purchases and sales of securities in which the company acts as principal and gains and losses on the company securities positions. the company also engages in proprietary trading activities for its own account. commissions. commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter equity securities and options. in january 2002, the company began implementing a commission-based pricing structure for executing transactions on the nasdaq. prior to january 2002, the company operated its nasdaq equity business through market-making activities, which were primarily based on earning a spread between the bid and ask prices. in prior periods, the results of such market-making activities were reported in principal transaction trading revenues. as a result of the new pricing structure, revenues earned from nasdaq equity trading activities now are included in commission revenues. net interest. interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity in the company prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions. sales and trading revenues include the following: fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 (dollars in millions) equities $ 3,584 $ 4,615 $ 5,975 fixed income(1) 3,265 3,909 2,876 (1) amounts include interest rate products, foreign exchange, credit products and commodities. sales and trading revenues decreased 21% in fiscal 2002, reflecting lower equity and fixed income trading revenues. sales and trading revenues decreased 10% in fiscal 2001, as lower equity trading revenues were partially offset by higher fixed income trading revenues. equity sales and trading revenues decreased 22% in fiscal 2002, reflecting lower revenues from cash and derivative equity products due to lower levels of market volatility and lower trading opportunities related to new issue volume, decreased levels of inflows into equity mutual funds and lower revenues from certain proprietary trading activities. in fiscal 2002, the sluggish global economy and increased concerns regarding corporate bankruptcies and accounting irregularities contributed to difficult conditions in the equity markets, primarily in the u.s. and europe. equity sales and trading revenues decreased 23% in fiscal 2001, primarily reflecting lower revenues from trading cash and derivative equity products. despite higher customer trading volumes in both listed and otc securities, 32 table of contents conditions in the equity markets were generally less favorable in comparison with fiscal 2000, primarily in the u.s. and europe. in particular, the level of market volatility was significantly lower in fiscal 2001 as compared with fiscal 2000, especially in the technology sector. the decline in equity revenues also reflected lower new issue volume, lower levels of cash flows into equity mutual funds, increased margin pressure resulting from the decimalization of the quoted price of certain u.s. equity securities and lower revenues from certain proprietary trading activities. fixed income sales and trading revenues decreased 16% in fiscal 2002. the decrease primarily reflected lower revenues from government and investment grade fixed income securities and commodities, each of which had notably strong results in fiscal 2001, partially offset by higher revenues from global high-yield fixed income products and foreign exchange. the trading environment for government fixed income securities was difficult during fiscal 2002, due to lack of direction with respect to interest rates. the decrease in revenues from investment grade fixed income securities reflected a less favorable environment due to an increase in credit risks associated with certain issuers as corporate credit spreads widened due to concerns over corporate bankruptcies, corporate reporting and accounting issues, and credit downgrades. the decrease in commodity revenues from the record revenues achieved in fiscal 2001 was primarily attributable to difficult conditions in the energy markets, particularly in the electricity and natural gas sectors. lower levels of market liquidity and volatility existed during much of fiscal 2002, resulting in fewer trading opportunities. these conditions reflected increased energy regulation and a decline in the number of active market participants. the increase in revenues from global high-yield fixed income products was primarily driven by distressed debt and emerging markets activities, as well as a lower level of markdowns as compared with the prior year. the increase in foreign exchange trading revenues reflected higher market volatility as the u.s. dollar depreciated against the yen and the euro during much of fiscal 2002. u.s. dollar-denominated assets were relatively less attractive in fiscal 2002, reflecting concerns over the u.s. economy and difficult conditions in u.s. financial markets. in fiscal 2001, fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 36%, primarily reflecting higher revenues from trading government and investment grade fixed income products and foreign exchange and commodities, partially offset by lower revenues from trading global high-yield fixed income products, including emerging markets and distressed debt instruments. revenues from trading government and investment grade securities benefited from strong trading volumes and market liquidity, partially reflecting the aggressive easing of interest rates by the fed and the ecb during the year. the increase in foreign exchange revenues reflected higher levels of customer trading volumes and volatility in the foreign exchange markets in both the u.s. and europe. the higher level of volatility in the foreign exchange markets primarily reflected the fed interest rate actions during fiscal 2001 and the euro rally relative to the u.s. dollar during the first half of fiscal 2001. commodity revenues increased to a record level in fiscal 2001, primarily driven by higher revenues from electricity and natural gas trading, which benefited from periods of heightened price volatility. the volatility in electricity and natural gas prices primarily resulted from periodic regional energy shortages, as well as fluctuations in demand due to changing weather conditions. higher revenues from metals trading also contributed to the increase in fiscal 2001, as these markets rallied after september 11, 2001. the decline in revenues from global high-yield securities reflected the adverse impact of the difficult market and economic conditions that existed during fiscal 2001 on certain high-yield issuers, which resulted in markdowns of certain positions. in addition, sales and trading revenues include the net interest expense associated with the company aircraft financing activities (see other herein), as well as losses associated with the company corporate lending activities. in fiscal 2002, sales and trading revenues associated with these activities decreased and continued to reflect losses in the company corporate lending activities due to the difficult market conditions that existed during fiscal 2002, including the continued deterioration in the credit markets. these decreases were slightly offset by lower interest costs associated with the company aircraft financing activities. the decline in these sales and trading revenues in fiscal 2001 as compared with fiscal 2000 also was attributable to losses associated with the company corporate lending activities coupled with higher interest costs related to the company aircraft financing activities. 33 table of contents principal investments. principal transaction net investment revenue aggregating $41 million was recognized in fiscal 2002 as compared with losses of $216 million in fiscal 2001. fiscal 2002 results included gains on the company real estate investments, partially offset by losses in other principal investments. fiscal 2001 results included losses in the company principal investments, primarily reflecting difficult market conditions in the technology and telecommunications sectors. securities purchased in principal investment transactions generally are held for appreciation and are not readily marketable. it is not possible to determine when the company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to sales restrictions. moreover, estimates of the eventual realizable value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from asset management services, primarily fees associated with the company real estate investment activities. asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 10% in fiscal 2002, primarily due to higher management fees from the company real estate investment activities. asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 5% in fiscal 2001, primarily due to lower management fees from the company real estate investment activities. other. other revenues consist primarily of net rental and other revenues associated with the company aircraft financing business. other revenues decreased 5% in fiscal 2002. the decrease was primarily attributable to lower revenues from the company aircraft financing business, reflecting lower lease rates and a higher number of unleased aircraft. the decrease was partially offset by the inclusion of a gain (of which $53 million was allocated to the institutional securities segment) related to the company sale of an office tower in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. net revenues from the company aircraft financing business declined in fiscal 2002 as compared with the prior year, reflecting the slowdown in the commercial aircraft industry that began in early 2001 and was exacerbated by the events of september 11, 2001. during fiscal 2002, the continuing reduction in aircraft passenger volume and the bankruptcy of several major airlines resulted in the grounding of a significant number of aircraft. such conditions have contributed significantly to a decline in lease rates for operating lessors, including the company aircraft financing business. the company currently expects these conditions to continue or deteriorate further in the foreseeable future. other revenues increased 14% in fiscal 2001. the increase primarily related to higher revenues from the company aircraft financing business, as fiscal 2001 included a full year of revenues related to ansett worldwide, which was acquired in fiscal 2000. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 had an adverse impact on the global aviation industry. as a result, the company aircraft financing business experienced a decline in revenues and an increase in non-interest expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. non-interest expenses. fiscal 2002 total non-interest expenses decreased 15%. compensation and benefits expense decreased 22%, principally reflecting lower incentive-based compensation due to lower revenues and earnings and reduced employment levels attributable to the company focus on managing costs. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 3%. brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 8%, primarily reflecting higher brokerage and clearing costs due to increased global securities trading volume, particularly in europe and the u.s. marketing and business development expense decreased 7%, primarily reflecting a lower level of travel and entertainment costs, which reflected the overall decline in business activity in the global financial markets. professional services expense decreased 22%, primarily 34 table of contents reflecting lower consulting costs, as well as lower temporary service costs and lower recruiting fees. other expense decreased 16%, primarily reflecting lower costs associated with the company aircraft financing business, including a lower impairment charge of $74 million (as compared with $87 million in fiscal 2001) and lower maintenance and other aircraft-related costs in fiscal 2002 (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). non-interest expenses also included restructuring and other charges of $117 million (see restructuring and other charges herein). fiscal 2001 total non-interest expenses decreased 11%. compensation and benefits expense decreased 19%, principally reflecting lower incentive-based compensation due to lower revenues and earnings. fiscal 2001 compensation and benefits expense included severance and other related costs associated with reduced employment levels attributable to the company focus on managing costs. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 8%. occupancy and equipment expense increased 22%, primarily due to increased office space and rental costs in new york city and london. brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 22%, primarily reflecting higher brokerage and clearing costs due to increased global securities trading volume, particularly in europe and the u.s. information processing and communications expense increased 19%, primarily due to increased costs associated with the company information technology infrastructure, including data processing and market data services. marketing and business development expense decreased 20%, primarily due to a lower level of travel and entertainment costs, which reflected the overall decline in business activity in the global financial markets. other expense increased 23%, primarily reflecting significantly higher costs associated with the company aircraft financing business. such costs include a charge of $87 million for the impairment of certain aircraft assets, as well as higher repossession, maintenance and other aircraft-related costs (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). 35 table of contents individual investor group statements of income (dollars in millions) fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 revenues: investment banking $ 255 $ 280 $ 387 principal transactions: trading 567 772 770 investments (45 ) (11 ) 34 commissions 1,157 1,300 2,029 asset management, distribution and administration fees 1,640 1,700 1,777 interest and dividends 359 735 1,091 other 178 45 72 total revenues 4,111 4,821 6,160 interest expense 131 366 454 net revenues 3,980 4,455 5,706 non-interest expenses 3,995 4,516 4,813 (loss) income before income taxes (15 ) (61 ) 893 income tax (benefit) provision (8 ) (17 ) 387 net (loss) income $ (7 ) $ (44 ) $ 506 individual investor group provides its clients with financial planning and investment advisory services through a flexible platform designed to accommodate individual investment goals and risk profiles. individual investor group offers securities and investment products supported by the company investment banking, research, investment management, execution and operational resources. the company private wealth management group provides financial solutions and management services to high net worth individuals and families. at november 30, 2002, the company had client assets of $517 billion and the second largest financial advisor sales organization in the u.s. on a global basis, the company had approximately 12,500 professional financial advisors at november 30, 2002. individual investor group net revenues were $3,980 million in fiscal 2002, a decrease of 11% from fiscal 2001. individual investor group net loss was $7 million in fiscal 2002 as compared with a net loss of $44 million in fiscal 2001. the decrease in net revenues was primarily attributable to lower net interest, principal trading and commission revenues, and lower asset management, distribution and administration fees. the decline in the net loss was due to lower non-interest expenses, including lower compensation and benefits costs and a net gain of approximately $50 million from the sale of the company self-directed online brokerage accounts, partially offset by restructuring and other charges of $112 million (see restructuring and other charges herein). individual investor group net revenues were $4,455 million in fiscal 2001, a decrease of 22% from fiscal 2000. individual investor group had a net loss of $44 million in fiscal 2001 as compared with net income of $506 million in fiscal 2000. the decrease in net revenues and the net loss were primarily attributable to lower commission, net interest and investment banking revenues, and lower asset management, distribution and administration fees, partially offset by a decrease in non-interest expenses, including lower compensation costs and lower marketing and business development costs. 36 table of contents in fiscal 2002, the company sold its self-directed online brokerage accounts to bank of montreal harris direct. the transaction closed during the third quarter of fiscal 2002. the company recorded gross proceeds of approximately $100 million (included within other revenues) and related costs of approximately $50 million (included within non-interest expenses). the company believes that the difficult economic and market conditions that currently exist, including weakened investor confidence and increased risk aversion among individual investors, are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on the results of its individual investor group business. investment banking. investment banking revenues are derived from the individual investor group distribution of equity and fixed income securities underwritten by the institutional securities business, as well as underwritings of unit investment trust products. investment banking revenues decreased 9% in fiscal 2002 and 28% in fiscal 2001. the decrease in both periods was primarily due to a decrease in unit investment trust sales volume. principal transactions. principal transactions include revenues from customers purchases and sales of securities in which the company acts as principal and gains and losses on the company securities positions. the company maintains certain security positions primarily to facilitate individual investor group customer transactions. principal transaction trading revenues decreased 27% in fiscal 2002, reflecting lower equity and fixed income trading revenues. in fiscal 2001, principal transaction trading revenues remained stable versus fiscal 2000, as an increase in fixed income trading revenues was offset by a decline in equity trading revenues. equity trading revenues decreased during both fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, primarily due to difficult conditions in the equity markets. fiscal 2002 equity trading revenues also were negatively affected by the company new pricing structure for executing transactions on the nasdaq (see commissions herein). fixed income trading revenues decreased during fiscal 2002 as compared with relatively high levels in fiscal 2001, reflecting less favorable market conditions in government and corporate fixed income securities. in fiscal 2001, weakness in the equity markets resulted in an increased demand for various fixed income products, which had a favorable impact on fixed income trading revenues. principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $45 million were recorded in fiscal 2002 as compared with net losses of $11 million in fiscal 2001. fiscal 2002 results primarily reflected the write-down of an equity investment related to the company european individual securities business. fiscal 2001 results primarily reflected unrealized losses in certain of the company principal investments. commissions. commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and otc equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. commission revenues decreased 11% in fiscal 2002 and 36% in fiscal 2001. the decrease in fiscal 2002 was due to lower customer trading volumes as individual investor participation in the u.s. equity markets continued to decline. in fiscal 2002, the decrease was partially offset by the impact of a new commission-based pricing structure for executing transactions on the nasdaq. in fiscal 2001, commission revenues declined as a result of lower transaction volume due to the economic downturn in the u.s. and the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001. in january 2002, the company began implementing a commission-based pricing structure for executing transactions on the nasdaq. prior to january 2002, the company operated its nasdaq equity business through market-making activities, which were primarily based on earning a spread between the bid and ask prices. in prior periods, the results of such market-making activities were reported in principal transaction trading revenues. as a result of the new pricing structure, revenues earned from nasdaq equity trading activities now are included in commission revenues. 37 table of contents through morgan stanley choice sm , a service and technology platform available to individual investors, the company provides its individual investor clients with the choice of self-directed investing online; a traditional full-service brokerage relationship through a financial advisor; or some combination of both. morgan stanley choice provides a range of pricing options, including fee-based pricing. as a result, revenues recorded within the commissions and asset management, distribution and administration fees income statement categories are affected by the number of the company clients electing a fee-based pricing arrangement. net interest. interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions. net interest revenues decreased 38% in fiscal 2002 and 42% in fiscal 2001, primarily due to lower interest revenues from a decrease in customer margin loans, partially offset by a decline in interest expense due to a decrease in the company average cost of borrowings. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from asset management services, including fees for promoting and distributing mutual funds ( 12b-1 fees ) and fees for investment management services provided to segregated customer accounts pursuant to various contractual arrangements in connection with the company investment consulting services ( ics ) business. the company receives 12b-1 fees for services it provides in promoting and distributing certain open-ended mutual funds. these fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision. asset management, distribution and administration fees also include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement under the morgan stanley choice service and technology platform. asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 4% in both fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. the decrease in both periods was primarily attributable to lower 12b-1 fees from distributing mutual funds to individual investors. the decreases in both periods also reflected lower client asset balances. in fiscal 2002, the decrease was partially offset by higher ics fees. in fiscal 2002, client asset balances declined to $517 billion at november 30, 2002 from $595 billion at november 30, 2001. at november 30, 2000, client asset balances were $662 billion. the decreases in client asset balances in both fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 were primarily due to market depreciation, reflecting declines in the global financial markets. other. other revenues primarily include account fees and other miscellaneous service fees. other revenues were $178 million in fiscal 2002 as compared with $45 million in fiscal 2001. the increase primarily reflected approximately $100 million of revenue received in connection with the sale of the company self-directed online brokerage accounts (see business acquisitions, business disposition and asset dispositions herein). the increase also was due to higher customer account fees and the inclusion of a gain (of which $7 million was allocated to the individual investor group segment) related to the company sale of an office tower in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. other revenues were $45 million in fiscal 2001 as compared with $72 million in fiscal 2000. the decrease was primarily attributable to lower miscellaneous account charges due to lower transaction volumes. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses decreased 12% in fiscal 2002. the majority of the decrease was attributable to lower compensation and benefits expense, which decreased 9%, principally reflecting lower incentive-based compensation due to lower levels of revenues and earnings as well as lower employment levels. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 15%. occupancy and equipment expense decreased 8%, reflecting lower maintenance and repair costs, as well as lower rent expense resulting from the utilization of alternate facilities after the loss of the world trade center complex. information processing and communications expenses decreased 15% due to lower telecommunications, market data and outsourced data processing costs. professional services expense decreased 40%, primarily reflecting lower consulting costs. other expenses decreased 41% due to the benefit from the resolution of a mutual fund litigation matter, offset in part by increased exposure to other litigation matters. the decrease also reflected the elimination 38 table of contents of goodwill amortization due to the company adoption of sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets. these decreases were partially offset by costs associated with the company sale of its self-directed online brokerage accounts (see business acquisitions, business disposition and asset dispositions herein). fiscal 2002 non-interest expenses also included restructuring and other charges of $112 million (see restructuring and other charges herein). non-interest expenses decreased 6% in fiscal 2001. the majority of the decrease was attributable to lower compensation and benefits expense, which decreased 11% in fiscal 2001, principally reflecting lower incentive-based compensation due to lower levels of revenues and earnings. fiscal 2001 compensation and benefits expense included severance and other related costs associated with reduced employment levels attributable to the company focus on managing costs. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 4%. occupancy and equipment expense increased 17%, reflecting increased rental and exit costs associated with the closing of several facilities, partially offset by lower rent expense as a result of the loss of the world trade center complex on september 11, 2001. marketing and business development expense decreased 31%, primarily reflecting lower advertising costs. professional services expense increased 39%, primarily due to higher consulting costs. other expenses increased 14%, primarily due to a higher level of allocated expenses. 39 table of contents investment management statements of income (dollars in millions) fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 revenues: investment banking $ 32 $ 54 $ 129 principal transactions: trading 4 investments (31 ) (89 ) 59 commissions 50 46 41 asset management, distribution and administration fees 2,199 2,420 2,527 interest and dividends 25 72 98 other 25 32 28 total revenues 2,304 2,535 2,882 interest expense 10 12 net revenues 2,304 2,525 2,870 non-interest expenses 1,462 1,696 1,795 gain on sale of business 35 income before income taxes 842 829 1,110 provision for income taxes 317 349 449 net income $ 525 $ 480 $ 661 investment management provides a wide range of investment advisory products to individual, institutional and intermediary clients through numerous distribution channels. the investment products range from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investments in developed and emerging markets. through various service companies, distribution subsidiaries and investment advisors, the company offers clients several investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation, domestic and international investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios. investment management also includes the company private equity activities in which the company generally acts as general partner of the private equity funds through which it conducts certain of its principal investing activities and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds. in fiscal 2002, the company customer assets under management or supervision decreased $39 billion to $420 billion at november 30, 2002, principally reflecting market depreciation. investment management net revenues for fiscal 2002 were $2,304 million, a decrease of 9% from fiscal 2001. investment management net income for fiscal 2002 was $525 million, an increase of 9% from fiscal 2001. the decrease in net revenues in fiscal 2002 primarily reflected lower fee-based revenues due to a decline in average assets under management and a less favorable asset mix. the decrease in the level of average assets under management was primarily attributable to market depreciation, reflecting declines in the global financial markets. the increase in net income in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to lower non-interest expenses, including lower incentive-based compensation and a lower effective income tax rate, partially offset by lower net revenues. investment management net revenues for fiscal 2001 were $2,525 million, a decrease of 12% from fiscal 2000. investment management net income for fiscal 2001 was $480 million, a decrease of 27% from fiscal 2000. net income for fiscal 2000 included a $21 million net gain on the sale of the company global custody business (see business acquisitions, business disposition and asset dispositions herein). excluding the net gain on the sale of business, net income decreased 25% in fiscal 2001. the decrease in net revenues and net income in fiscal 40 table of contents 2001 primarily reflected lower fee-based revenues due to a less favorable asset mix and lower average assets under management or supervision. investment banking revenues also decreased, resulting from lower unit investment trust sales. these revenue declines were partially offset by the favorable impact of expense management initiatives, including lower incentive-based compensation expense. investment banking. investment management primarily generates investment banking revenues from the underwriting of unit investment trust products. in fiscal 2002, investment banking revenues decreased 41%. in fiscal 2001, investment banking revenues decreased 58%. the decrease in both periods was primarily related to a lower volume of unit investment trust sales. unit investment trust sales volume declined 43% to $3.9 billion in fiscal 2002 and 58% to $6.9 billion in fiscal 2001. due to the emergence of alternate investment products, the company does not expect unit investment trust sales volumes and associated investment banking revenues to return to the levels achieved in prior years. principal transactions. investment management principal transaction revenues consist primarily of gains and losses on investments associated with the company private equity activities and net gains and losses on capital investments in certain of the company investment funds. principal transaction investment losses aggregating $31 million were recognized in fiscal 2002 as compared with losses of $89 million in fiscal 2001. fiscal 2002 results primarily related to unrealized losses in the company private equity portfolio. fiscal 2001 results included unrealized losses in the company private equity portfolio and certain other principal investments. both periods results reflected difficult market conditions in the technology and telecommunications sectors. securities purchased in principal investment transactions generally are held for appreciation and are not readily marketable. it is not possible to determine when the company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to sales restrictions. moreover, estimates of the eventual realizable value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. commissions. investment management primarily generates commission revenues from dealer and distribution concessions on sales of certain funds as well as certain allocated commission revenues. commission revenues increased 9% in fiscal 2002 and 12% in fiscal 2001. in fiscal 2002, the increase was associated with commission revenues generated from the sale of insurance products and a higher level of allocated commission revenues. in fiscal 2001, the increase was associated with a higher level of allocated commission revenues, partially offset by decreases in the level of sales volume of certain van kampen products. net interest. investment management generates net interest revenues from certain investment positions and from allocated interest revenues and expenses. net interest revenue decreased 60% in fiscal 2002 and 28% in fiscal 2001. the decreases in both periods reflected lower interest revenue associated with a lower interest rate environment and a lower level of allocated net interest revenues. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees primarily include revenues from the management and administration of assets, including management fees associated with the company private equity activities. these fees arise from investment management services the company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. the company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or quarterly assets for other vehicles. 41 table of contents the company customer assets under management or supervision at fiscal year-end were as follows: at november 30, 2002 2001 2000 (dollars in billions) assets under management or supervision by distribution channel: retail $ 247 $ 280 $ 315 institutional 173 179 185 total(2) $ 420 $ 459 $ 500 assets under management or supervision by asset class: equity $ 172 $ 199 $ 236 fixed income 127 128 134 money market 66 70 61 other(1) 55 62 69 total(2) $ 420 $ 459 $ 500 (1) amounts include alternative investment vehicles. (2) revenues and expenses associated with certain assets are included in the company individual investor group and institutional securities segments. asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 9% in fiscal 2002 and 4% in fiscal 2001. in both fiscal 2002 and 2001, the decrease in revenues primarily reflected lower management fees and other revenues resulting from a decline in the level of average assets under management or supervision and a less favorable asset mix, primarily due to a shift from equity products to fixed income and money market products. as of november 30, 2002, customer assets under management or supervision decreased $39 billion from fiscal year-end 2001. as of november 30, 2001, customer assets under management or supervision decreased $41 billion from fiscal year-end 2000. the decrease in both periods was primarily attributable to market depreciation, reflecting declines in the global financial markets. the decline also was attributable to lower net flows of customer assets, as redemptions were marginally higher than new sales in both periods. the decrease in fiscal 2001 also reflected the sale of $6 billion of assets. non-interest expenses. fiscal 2002 total non-interest expenses decreased 14%, primarily reflecting a decline in goodwill amortization and a net benefit from the resolution of a mutual fund litigation matter. compensation and benefits expense decreased 15%, principally reflecting lower incentive-based compensation, lower benefits expense and lower employment levels. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 13%. occupancy and equipment expense decreased 12%, reflecting lower rental expense due to the utilization of alternate facilities after the loss of the world trade center complex. brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 18%, primarily reflecting a higher level of deferred commission amortization associated with net customer flows in certain funds. marketing and business development expense decreased 17%, primarily driven by lower advertising, travel and entertainment, and fund organization costs. other expense decreased 88%, primarily reflecting a decline in goodwill amortization as a result of the company adoption of sfas no. 142, as well as the net benefit from certain legal matters, including the resolution of a mutual fund litigation matter. non-interest expenses also included restructuring and other charges of $6 million (see restructuring and other charges herein). fiscal 2001 total non-interest expenses decreased 6%, partially reflecting the favorable impact of synergies resulting from integration initiatives within investment management operating platforms. compensation and benefits expense decreased 9%, reflecting lower incentive-based compensation costs due to investment management lower level of revenues and earnings. fiscal 2001 compensation and benefits expense included severance and other related costs associated with reduced employment levels attributable to the company focus on managing costs. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 2%. brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 19%, primarily due to a higher level of deferred commission amortization associated with net customer flows in certain funds, partially offset by lower commission expense due to lower sales of closed-end funds through the non-proprietary distribution channel. marketing and business development expense decreased 23%, primarily driven by lower advertising and promotional costs. 42 table of contents credit services statements of income (dollars in millions) fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 fees: merchant and cardmember $ 1,420 $ 1,349 $ 1,256 servicing 2,091 1,904 1,489 other 19 1 28 total non-interest revenues 3,530 3,254 2,773 interest revenue 2,413 2,593 2,895 interest expense 1,050 1,236 1,378 net interest income 1,363 1,357 1,517 provision for consumer loan losses 1,336 1,052 810 net credit income 27 305 707 net revenues 3,557 3,559 3,480 non-interest expenses 2,368 2,432 2,336 income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 1,189 1,127 1,144 provision for income taxes 422 425 419 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 767 702 725 cumulative effect of accounting change (13 ) net income $ 767 $ 689 $ 725 the company credit services business issues quality consumer credit products and operates discover business services, a network of merchant and cash access locations primarily in the u.s. the credit cards issued by the company include the discover classic card, the discover platinum card, the discover gold card, the discover titanium card and the morgan stanley card sm . in fiscal 2002, credit services net revenues were $3,557 million, a marginal decline from fiscal 2001. credit services achieved record net income of $767 million in fiscal 2002, an increase of 11% from fiscal 2001. net income for fiscal 2001 included a charge of $13 million from the cumulative effect of an accounting change associated with the company adoption of sfas no. 133 on december 1, 2000. in fiscal 2002, an increase in non-interest revenues was offset by a higher provision for consumer loan losses. the increase in the provision for consumer loan losses reflected the impact of the continued difficult economic environment on the company credit card portfolio, including an adverse trend in bankruptcy filings. lower non-interest expenses and a lower effective income tax rate contributed to the increase in net income in fiscal 2002. in fiscal 2001, credit services net revenues were $3,559 million, an increase of 2% from fiscal 2000. credit services net income was $689 million in fiscal 2001, a decrease of 5% from fiscal 2000. the increase in net revenues was primarily attributable to increased servicing fees, partially offset by lower net credit income due to a higher provision for consumer loan losses and lower net interest income. in fiscal 2001, the increase also was attributable to higher merchant and cardmember fees, which reflected modest managed general purpose credit card loan growth from then record sales and transaction volumes. the higher provision for consumer loan losses reflected the impact of the slowdown in the u.s. economy on the company credit card portfolio and a related rise in personal bankruptcy filings. the decrease in net income was due to higher non-interest expenses, partially offset by higher net revenues. 43 table of contents credit services statistical data were as follows: fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 (dollars in billions) general purpose credit card loans at fiscal year-end: owned $ 22.5 $ 20.1 $ 21.9 managed $ 51.1 $ 49.3 $ 47.1 general purpose credit card transaction volume $ 97.3 $ 93.3 $ 90.1 the higher level of managed general purpose credit card loans at both november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001 was primarily attributable to growth in the company discover platinum card. merchant and cardmember fees. merchant and cardmember fees include revenues from fees charged to merchants on credit card sales, as well as charges to cardmembers for late payment fees, overlimit fees, insurance fees and cash advance fees, net of cardmember rewards. cardmember rewards include the cashback bonus &reg; award program, pursuant to which the company pays discover classic card, discover platinum card and morgan stanley platinum card cardmembers a percentage of their purchase amounts ranging up to 1% based upon a cardmember level and type of purchases. merchant and cardmember fees increased 5% in fiscal 2002 and 7% in fiscal 2001. the increases in both years were due to higher merchant discount revenue associated with record sales volumes, coupled with a slight increase in the average merchant discount rate. in fiscal 2002, the increase in merchant and cardmember fees also was due to higher late payment fees and lower cardmember rewards incentives, partially offset by lower overlimit and cash advance fees. late payment fees increased due to the implementation of a tiered fee and the elimination of certain payment features that previously mitigated late charges. cardmember rewards incentives were lower due to modifications in the cashback bonus program and higher estimated future forfeitures of such rewards, partially offset by higher sales volume. overlimit fees decreased due to fewer occurrences. cash advance fees decreased due to lower cash advance transaction volume. in fiscal 2001, the increase in merchant and cardmember fees was partially offset by higher cardmember rewards incentives and lower net overlimit fees. higher cardmember rewards incentives were due to then record levels of sales volume. the decline in overlimit fees reflected a higher level of charge-offs of such fees. servicing fees. servicing fees are revenues derived from consumer loans that have been sold to investors through asset securitizations and mortgage whole loan sales. cash flows from the interest yield and cardmember fees generated by securitized general purpose credit card loans and the interest yield generated by securitized mortgage loans are used to pay investors in these loans a predetermined fixed or floating rate of return on their investment, to reimburse investors for losses of principal resulting from charged-off loans and to pay the company a fee for servicing the loans. any excess cash flows remaining are paid to the company. the servicing fees and excess net cash flows paid to the company are reported as servicing fees in the consolidated statements of income. the sale of general purpose credit card and mortgage loans through asset securitizations, therefore, has the effect of converting portions of net credit income and fee income to servicing fees. the company completed credit card asset securitizations of $3.6 billion in fiscal 2002 and $7.3 billion in fiscal 2001 and mortgage loan securitizations of $0.5 billion in fiscal 2002 and $0.3 billion in fiscal 2001. the credit card asset securitization transactions completed in fiscal 2002 have expected maturities ranging from approximately three to five years from the date of issuance. the mortgage loan securitization transaction completed in fiscal 2002 has an expected maturity of 11 years from the date of issuance. 44 table of contents the table below presents the components of servicing fees: fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 (dollars in millions) merchant and cardmember fees $ 690 $ 651 $ 565 interest revenue 4,061 4,336 3,396 other revenue 61 90 106 interest expense (887 ) (1,511 ) (1,456 ) provision for consumer loan losses (1,834 ) (1,662 ) (1,122 ) servicing fees $ 2,091 $ 1,904 $ 1,489 servicing fees are affected by the level of securitized loans and mortgage whole loan sales, the spread between the interest yield on the securitized loans and the yield paid to the investors, the rate of credit losses on securitized loans and the level of cardmember fees earned from securitized general purpose credit card loans. servicing fees increased 10% in fiscal 2002 and 28% in fiscal 2001. the increases in both years were due to a higher level of net interest cash flows driven primarily by the lower interest rate environment. in both years, these increases were partially offset by higher credit losses resulting from a higher rate of charge-offs related to the securitized portfolio. the increase in servicing fees in fiscal 2001 was impacted by an increase in cardmember fee revenue associated with higher levels of average securitized general purpose credit card loans. in fiscal 2001, higher credit losses were impacted by a higher level of average securitized general purpose credit card loans. the other revenue component of servicing fees is primarily composed of net securitization gains and losses on general purpose credit card loans and mortgage loans as well as gains and losses on mortgage whole loan sales and related mortgage loan servicing fees. net securitization gains on general purpose credit card loans of $20 million and $70 million were recorded in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. approximately $28 million of the decrease was attributable to lower levels of general purpose credit card securitization transactions in fiscal 2002. the decrease in net securitization gains also reflected modifications to certain assumptions in the gain calculations made during fiscal 2001, which increased the gain on general purpose credit card loans in fiscal 2001 by approximately $24 million. the assumptions modified by the company in fiscal 2001 were the net interest rate spread and the net charge-off rate. the assumed net interest rate spread increased, reflecting the projection of a lower interest rate environment and the resulting lower interest expense (i.e., cost of funding) on variable rate securitizations, partially offset by an estimated lower yield on credit card receivables attributable to estimated lower interest rates and higher charge-offs of interest. the assumed net charge-off rate increased, reflecting an increase in the projected charge-off rate attributable to weakening economic conditions and its impact on the company credit card portfolio. net securitization gains on mortgage loans and gains on mortgage whole loan sales of $28 million and $10 million were recorded in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. the $18 million increase was attributable to higher levels of mortgage whole loan sales driven by a higher level of mortgage loan originations. net interest income. net interest income represents the difference between interest revenue derived from consumer loans and short-term investment assets and interest expense incurred to finance those loans and assets. assets, consisting primarily of consumer loans, currently earn interest revenue at both fixed rates and market-indexed variable rates. the company incurs interest expense at fixed and floating rates. interest expense also includes the effects of any interest rate contracts entered into by the company as part of its interest rate risk management program. this program is designed to reduce the volatility of earnings resulting from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. net interest income in fiscal 2002 increased slightly from the prior-year period. in fiscal 2002, a decline in interest expense and an increase in general purpose credit card loans were offset by a lower yield on these loans. the lower yield on general purpose credit card loans was primarily due to lower interest rates offered to new 45 table of contents cardmembers and certain existing cardmembers, as well as higher charge-offs of interest. the decrease in interest expense was primarily due to a decrease in the company average cost of borrowings. the fed aggressive interest rate easing that began in fiscal 2001 continued to benefit the company average cost of borrowings in fiscal 2002. the company average cost of borrowings was 5.29% for fiscal 2002 as compared with 6.26% for fiscal 2001. net interest income decreased 11% in fiscal 2001. the decrease was primarily due to lower interest revenue attributable to lower levels of average general purpose credit card loans and a lower yield on these loans, partially offset by a decline in interest expense. the decrease in the level of average general purpose credit card loans was due to a higher level of securitized credit card loans, partially offset by a higher level of sales volume. the lower yield on general purpose credit card loans was primarily due to lower interest rates offered to new cardmembers and certain existing cardmembers, as well as higher charge-offs of interest. the decrease in the yield was partially offset by the company repricing of certain credit card receivables. the decrease in interest expense was primarily due to a lower level of interest bearing liabilities, coupled with a decrease in the company average cost of borrowings, which reflected the fed aggressive interest rate easing during fiscal 2001. the company average cost of borrowings was 6.26% for fiscal 2001 as compared with 6.50% for fiscal 2000. the following tables present analyses of credit services average balance sheets and interest rates in fiscal 2002, fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 and changes in net interest income during those fiscal years: average balance sheet analysis. fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000(3) average balance rate interest average balance rate interest average balance rate interest (dollars in millions) assets interest earning assets: general purpose credit card loans $ 21,054 10.82 % $ 2,279 $ 20,701 11.49 % $ 2,379 $ 21,906 12.15 % $ 2,662 other consumer loans 1,229 5.99 73 808 7.83 63 702 8.82 62 investment securities 60 1.46 1 444 5.09 23 594 6.37 38 other 2,451 2.45 60 2,389 5.36 128 1,813 7.34 133 total interest earning assets 24,794 9.73 2,413 24,342 10.65 2,593 25,015 11.57 2,895 allowance for loan losses (890 ) (789 ) (779 ) non-interest earning assets 2,139 2,169 1,813 total assets $ 26,043 $ 25,722 $ 26,049 liabilities and shareholder equity interest bearing liabilities: interest bearing deposits savings $ 1,018 1.56 % $ 16 $ 1,516 4.29 % $ 65 $ 1,513 5.62 % $ 85 brokered 9,732 6.01 584 8,891 6.63 590 7,732 6.62 512 other time 2,037 5.10 104 3,058 5.99 183 3,032 6.19 188 total interest bearing deposits 12,787 5.51 704 13,465 6.22 838 12,277 6.39 785 other borrowings 7,053 4.91 346 6,299 6.33 398 8,925 6.65 593 total interest bearing liabilities 19,840 5.29 1,050 19,764 6.26 1,236 21,202 6.50 1,378 shareholder equity/other liabilities 6,203 5,958 4,847 total liabilities and shareholder equity $ 26,043 $ 25,722 $ 26,049 net interest income $ 1,363 $ 1,357 $ 1,517 net interest margin(1) 5.50 % 5.57 % 6.06 % interest rate spread(2) 4.44 % 4.39 % 5.07 % (1) net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of total interest earning assets. (2) interest rate spread represents the difference between the rate on total interest earning assets and the rate on total interest bearing liabilities. (3) certain prior-year information has been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 46 table of contents rate/volume analysis. fiscal 2002 vs. fiscal 2001 fiscal 2001 vs. fiscal 2000(1) increase/(decrease) due to changes in: volume rate total volume rate total (dollars in millions) interest revenue general purpose credit card loans $ 41 $ (141 ) $ (100 ) $ (146 ) $ (137 ) $ (283 ) other consumer loans 33 (23 ) 10 9 (8 ) 1 investment securities (20 ) (2 ) (22 ) (9 ) (6 ) (15 ) other 3 (71 ) (68 ) 42 (47 ) (5 ) total interest revenue 48 (228 ) (180 ) (78 ) (224 ) (302 ) interest expense interest bearing deposits: savings (21 ) (28 ) (49 ) (20 ) (20 ) brokered 55 (61 ) (6 ) 77 1 78 other time (61 ) (18 ) (79 ) 1 (6 ) (5 ) total interest bearing deposits (42 ) (92 ) (134 ) 76 (23 ) 53 other borrowings 48 (100 ) (52 ) (175 ) (20 ) (195 ) total interest expense 5 (191 ) (186 ) (94 ) (48 ) (142 ) net interest income $ 43 $ (37 ) $ 6 $ 16 $ (176 ) $ (160 ) (1) certain prior-year information has been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. the supplemental table below provides average managed loan balance and rate information, which takes into account both owned and securitized loans: supplemental average managed loan information. fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000(1) average balance rate average balance rate average balance rate (dollars in millions) general purpose credit card loans $ 49,835 12.64 % $ 49,432 13.45 % $ 43,536 13.82 % total interest earning assets 54,243 11.94 53,881 12.86 47,061 13.37 total interest bearing liabilities 49,290 3.93 49,303 5.57 43,248 6.49 general purpose credit card loan interest rate spread 8.71 7.88 7.33 interest rate spread 8.01 7.29 6.88 net interest margin 8.36 7.76 7.40 (1) certain prior-year information has been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. provision for consumer loan losses. the provision for consumer loan losses is the amount necessary to establish the allowance for consumer loan losses at a level that the company believes is adequate to absorb estimated losses in its consumer loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. the company provision for consumer loan losses was $1,336 million and $1,052 million for fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. the company allowance for consumer loan losses was $928 million at november 30, 2002 and $847 million at november 30, 2001. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is an allowance 47 table of contents applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio that is evaluated quarterly for adequacy and is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. in calculating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. the amount of the allowance is established through a process that begins with estimates of the losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio based on coverage of a rolling average of historical credit losses. in addition, the company regularly performs a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact future credit loss experience, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the provision for consumer loan losses, which is affected by net charge-offs, loan volume and changes in the amount of consumer loans estimated to be uncollectible, increased 27% and 30% in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. the increases in both periods were due to higher net charge-off rates. in fiscal 2001, the increase was partially offset by lower levels of average general purpose credit card loans. in addition, to reflect the impact of the continued difficult economic environment on its credit card portfolio and an adverse trend in bankruptcy filings, the company recorded a provision for consumer loan loss expense that exceeded the amount of net consumer loans charged off by approximately $75 million in fiscal 2002 and approximately $65 million in fiscal 2001. general purpose credit card loans are considered delinquent when interest or principal payments become 30 days past due. general purpose credit card loans are charged off at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180 days past due, except in the case of bankruptcies and fraudulent transactions, where loans are charged off earlier. loan delinquencies and charge-offs are primarily affected by changes in economic conditions and may vary throughout the year due to seasonal consumer spending and payment behaviors. in both fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, net charge-offs increased in both the owned and managed portfolios as compared with the prior-year periods. despite the increase in net charge-off rates, the company delinquency rates in both the over 30- and over 90-day categories were lower at november 30, 2002 as compared with november 30, 2001, reflecting the company increased focus on collections in the earlier stages of delinquency. weak economic conditions and a higher level of bankruptcy filings in the u.s., coupled with the seasoning of the company general purpose credit card loan portfolio, contributed to the higher net charge-off rates during fiscal 2002. if weak economic conditions and a higher level of bankruptcy filings continue to persist, the rate of net charge-offs may be higher in future periods. the company future charge-off rates and credit quality are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what has been discussed above. factors that influence the provision for consumer loan losses include the level and direction of general purpose credit card loan delinquencies and charge-offs, changes in consumer spending and payment behaviors, bankruptcy trends, the seasoning of the company general purpose credit card loan portfolio, interest rate movements and their impact on consumer behavior, and 48 table of contents the rate and magnitude of changes in the company general purpose credit card loan portfolio, including the overall mix of accounts, products and loan balances within the portfolio. asset quality. the following table presents owned and managed general purpose credit card loans and delinquency and net charge-off rates: fiscal 2002 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2000 owned managed owned managed owned managed (dollars in millions) general purpose credit card loans at fiscal year-end $ 22,543 $ 51,143 $ 20,085 $ 49,332 $ 21,866 $ 47,123 general purpose credit card loans contractually past due as a percentage of fiscal year-end general purpose credit card loans: 30 to 89 days 2.93 % 3.30 % 3.43 % 3.83 % 3.01 % 3.50 % 90 to 179 days 2.41 % 2.66 % 2.74 % 3.02 % 2.04 % 2.42 % net charge-offs as a percentage of average general purpose credit card loans 5.95 % 6.19 % 4.76 % 5.36 % 3.63 % 4.40 % non-interest expenses . fiscal 2002 total non-interest expenses decreased 3%, primarily due to lower marketing and business development expense, partially offset by increases in professional services and compensation and benefits expense. compensation and benefits expense increased 3% in fiscal 2002, principally reflecting an increase in salaries and benefits. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 5%. marketing and business development expenses decreased 13% in fiscal 2002 due to lower marketing and advertising expense as the company shifted its focus from account growth to credit quality. professional services expense increased 12%, attributable to higher consulting expenses and increased costs associated with enhanced credit and collection strategies. fiscal 2001 total non-interest expenses increased 4%, primarily due to higher compensation and benefits and information processing and communications expenses, partially offset by lower marketing and business development expenses. increased business activity related to the discover platinum card also contributed to the increase in non-interest expenses in fiscal 2001. compensation and benefits expense increased 12% in fiscal 2001, primarily due to higher costs associated with increased employment levels resulting from higher transaction volume and collection activities. excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 1%. information processing and communications expense increased 16% due to higher volume-related external data processing costs as well as higher depreciation costs associated with equipment at transaction processing facilities. marketing and business development expenses decreased 13% in fiscal 2001 due to lower marketing and advertising expense, including domestic and international direct mailing costs. other expenses increased 11%, primarily reflecting increases in certain operating expenses due to higher levels of transaction volume, business activity and a higher level of allocated costs, partially offset by a decline in inquiry fees resulting from fewer new account applications. seasonal factors . the credit card lending activities of credit services are affected by seasonal patterns of retail purchasing. historically, a substantial percentage of general purpose credit card loan growth occurs in the fourth calendar quarter, followed by a flattening or decline of these loans in the following calendar quarter. merchant fees, therefore, historically have tended to increase in the first fiscal quarter, reflecting higher sales activity in the month of december. additionally, higher cardmember rewards incentives historically have been accrued for as a reduction of merchant and cardmember fee revenues in the first fiscal quarter, reflecting seasonal growth in retail sales volume. 49 table of contents liquidity and capital resources. liquidity and capital policies. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company, reviews the company performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company funding and liquidity activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. the following liquidity framework is designed to ensure that the company maintains sufficient liquidity to meet all of its obligations for a one-year period without issuing any new unsecured debt: liquidity framework: designed to: cash capital policy ensure that the company can fund its balance sheet while repaying its debt obligations maturing within one year without issuing new unsecured debt. the company attempts to achieve this by maintaining sufficient long-term debt and equity capital to finance its securities inventory and all illiquid assets. liquidity reserve cover volatility in funding needs, which may not be covered in the short term by cash capital (long-term debt and equity capital). the reserve is periodically assessed and determined based on funding volatility and capacity. excess cash liquidity averaged approximately $19 billion during fiscal 2002 in the form of immediately available cash and cash equivalents. contingency planning establish and maintain a contingency funding plan to stress test the company ability to manage a prolonged liquidity contraction and provide a course of action over a one-year time period to ensure orderly functioning of the company businesses. the company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by products and markets) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. the company emphasizes the use of collateralized financing to limit reliance on credit sensitive unsecured borrowings. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities to support its ongoing borrowing programs. capital policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity base adequately reflects the economic risk inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company securities inventories, underwritings, principal investments, private equity activities, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, and investments in fixed assets, including aircraft assets. the company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. currently, the company believes it has sufficient capital to meet its needs. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. the board of directors has authorized the 50 table of contents company to purchase, subject to market conditions and certain other factors, shares of common stock for capital management purposes. the unused portion of this authorization at january 31, 2003 was approximately $600 million. the company also has an ongoing repurchase authorization in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. the balance sheet. the company total assets increased to $529.5 billion at november 30, 2002 from $482.6 billion at november 30, 2001, primarily attributable to increases in financial instruments owned, including corporate and other debt, u.s. government and agency securities and other sovereign government obligations, securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from securities transactions. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. this ratio is adjusted to reflect the low-risk nature of assets attributable to matched resale agreements, certain securities borrowed transactions and segregated customer cash balances. in addition, the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill, as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs. the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets, leverage ratios and book value per share: at november 30, 2002 2001 (dollars in millions, except ratio and per share data) total assets $ 529,499 $ 482,628 adjusted assets(1) $ 358,470 $ 338,157 leverage ratio(2) 24.5 x 23.6 x adjusted leverage ratio(3) 16.6 x 16.5 x book value per share(4) $ 20.24 $ 18.64 (1) adjusted assets represent total assets less the sum of (i) assets that were recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140, (ii) the lesser of securities purchased under agreements to resell or securities sold under agreements to repurchase, (iii) the lesser of securities borrowed or securities loaned, (iv) segregated customer cash balances and (v) goodwill. (2) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity ($21,646 million at november 30, 2002 and $20,488 million at november 30, 2001). for purposes of this calculation, tangible shareholders equity includes preferred and common equity and preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, less goodwill. (3) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (4) book value per share equals common shareholders equity divided by common shares outstanding of 1,081 million at november 30, 2002 and 1,093 million at november 30, 2001. principal sources of funding. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, euro, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. 51 table of contents the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds and issue short-term bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposits issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposits. unsecured debt and borrowings. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate, and fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the company credit services business) are used to finance the company consumer loan portfolio. consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. the company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). the volume of the company borrowings generally fluctuates in response to changes in the amount of repurchase transactions outstanding, the level of the company securities inventories and consumer loan receivables, and overall market conditions. availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. the company maintains borrowing relationships with a broad range of banks, financial institutions, counterparties and others from which it draws funds in a variety of currencies. the company values committed credit as a significant component of its liquidity policy. committed credit facilities. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper (the ms facility ). under the terms of the ms facility, the banks are committed to provide up to $5.5 billion. at november 30, 2002, the company maintained an $8.4 billion surplus shareholders equity as compared with the ms facility covenant requirement. the company maintains a master collateral facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co. ), one of the company u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial accommodations (the ms&amp;co. facility ). as part of the ms&amp;co. facility, ms&amp;co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.875 billion. at november 30, 2002, ms&amp;co. maintained a $2.5 billion surplus consolidated stockholder equity and a $3.2 billion surplus net capital, each as defined in the ms&amp;co. facility and as compared with the ms&amp;co. facility covenant requirements. the company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. international limited ( msil ), the company london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, to obtain committed funding from a syndicate of banks (the msil facility ) by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements for a secured repo facility and a company guarantee for an unsecured facility. the syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.95 billion, available in six major currencies. at november 30, 2002, msil maintained a $1.5 billion surplus shareholder equity and a $1.8 billion surplus financial resources, each as defined in the msil facility and as compared with the msil facility covenant requirements. morgan stanley japan limited ( msjl ), the company tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, maintains a committed revolving credit facility, guaranteed by the company, that provides funding to support general liquidity needs, including support of msjl unsecured borrowings (the msjl facility ). the ms facility covenant requirements described above apply to the company as guarantor. under the terms of the msjl facility, a syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to 70 billion japanese yen. 52 table of contents the company anticipates that it may utilize the ms facility, the ms&amp;co. facility, the msil facility or the msjl facility (the credit facilities ) for short-term funding from time to time (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in any of its credit facilities will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facilities, to pay its current level of dividends, or to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2002, no borrowings were outstanding under any of the credit facilities. the company and its subsidiaries also maintain a series of committed credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. the facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. additionally, through one of its subsidiaries, the company maintains a series of committed credit facilities to support the collateralized commercial mortgage whole loan business. the banks are committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.0 billion. off-balance sheet funding. the asset securitization market is a significant source of funding for the company credit services business. by utilizing this market, the company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the company other funding sources, including unsecured debt. the securitization transaction structures utilized for the credit services business are accounted for as sales i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in connection with its discover card securitization program, the company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to the discover card master trust i (the trust ), which issues asset-backed securities that are registered with the sec or privately placed. this structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions, potentially resulting in the need for the company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. the primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ( economic early amortization ). economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trust credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. in the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trust from the company would instead continue to be recognized on the company consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trust would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. these recognized receivables would require the company to obtain alternative funding. although the company believes that the combination of factors that would result in an economic early amortization event is remote, the company also believes its access to alternative funding sources would mitigate this potential liquidity risk. the company maintains a committed credit facility with a group of banks to support the short-term extendible asset-backed certificate program issued by the trust (the newcastle facility ). under the terms of the newcastle facility, the banks are committed to provide up to $1.1 billion. credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or otherwise affect the ability of the company to raise short-term and long-term financing include its: level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, global and product diversification, risk management policies, cash liquidity and capital structure. in addition, the agencies that rate the company debt have focused on certain recent changes in the market that may require financial services firms to assume more credit risk in connection with their corporate lending activities and recent legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned 53 table of contents factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured financings. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as over-the-counter derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain over-the-counter trading agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either standard &amp; poor or moody investors service. at november 30, 2002, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $475 million. as of january 31, 2003, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings(1) f1+ aa- moody investors service p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc. a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor s(2) a-1 a+ (1) in may 2002, fitch ratings lowered the company senior debt credit rating from aa to aa-. (2) in october 2002, standard &amp; poor lowered the company commercial paper credit rating from a-1+ to a-1 and its senior debt credit rating from aa- to a+. fiscal 2002 activity. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2002, the company issued senior notes aggregating $11.3 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $2.3 billion. the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2002, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company public debt shelf registration statements) was approximately $98.6 billion (including senior indebtedness consisting of guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). during fiscal 2002, the company purchased $990 million of its common stock through a combination of open market purchases and the settlement of put options. in fiscal 2002, the company redeemed all 1,725,000 outstanding shares of its series a fixed/adjustable rate cumulative preferred stock at a redemption price of $200 per share. the company also simultaneously redeemed all corresponding depositary shares at a redemption price of $50 per depositary share. each depositary share represented of a share of the company series a fixed/adjustable rate cumulative preferred stock. the company has capital units outstanding that were issued by the company and morgan stanley finance plc ( msf ), a u.k. subsidiary. a capital unit consists of (a) a subordinated debenture of msf guaranteed by the company and maturing in 2017 and (b) a related purchase contract issued by the company, which may be accelerated by the company, requiring the holder to purchase one depositary share representing shares (or fractional shares) of the company cumulative preferred stock. the aggregate amount of capital units outstanding was $66 million at november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001, respectively. 54 table of contents contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. in connection with its operating activities, the company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations pursuant to its long-term debt, operating leases and aircraft purchase obligations as of november 30, 2002 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2003 fiscal 2004-2005 fiscal 2006-2007 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term debt(1) $ 12,386 $ 18,175 $ 12,153 $ 12,447 $ 55,161 operating leases(2) 488 905 758 2,571 4,722 aircraft purchase obligations(2)(3) 116 116 total $ 12,990 $ 19,080 $ 12,911 $ 15,018 $ 59,999 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) all of the aircraft and equipment to be acquired under these purchase obligations are subject to contractual lease arrangements. the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, private equity and other principal investment activities, and lending and financing commitments as of november 30, 2002 are summarized below. since commitments associated with letters of credit and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: fiscal 2003 fiscal 2004-2005 fiscal 2006-2007 thereafter total (dollars in millions) letters of credit(1)(2) $ 3,589 $ $ $ $ 3,589 private equity and other principal investments(1)(3) 105 213 80 177 575 investment grade lending commitments(1)(4)(6) 8,679 824 2,381 1,902 13,786 non-investment grade lending commitments(1)(4)(6) 202 360 199 557 1,318 commitments for secured lending transactions(1)(5) 3,493 1,562 5,055 total $ 16,068 $ 2,959 $ 2,660 $ 2,636 $ 24,323 (1) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) this amount represents the company outstanding letters of credit, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral requirements. (3) this amount represents the company commitments in connection with its private equity and other principal investment activities. (4) the company investment grade and non-investment grade lending commitments are made in connection with its corporate lending activities. see less liquid assets lending activities herein. (5) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. (6) credit ratings are determined by the company credit department, using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. the table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans in the amount of approximately $260 billion. such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. these commitments, substantially all of which the company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. 55 table of contents at november 30, 2002, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $37 billion and $34 billion, respectively. less liquid assets. at november 30, 2002, certain assets of the company, such as real property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $2.3 billion, aircraft assets of $4.8 billion and goodwill of $1.4 billion, were illiquid. certain equity investments made in connection with the company private equity and other principal investment activities, certain high-yield debt securities, certain collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan products, bridge financings, and certain senior secured loans and positions also are not highly liquid. at november 30, 2002, the company had aggregate principal investments associated with its private equity and other principal investment activities (including direct investments and partnership interests) with a carrying value of approximately $800 million, of which approximately $300 million represented the company investments in its real estate funds. high-yield instruments. in connection with the company fixed income securities activities, the company underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets in non-investment grade instruments ( high-yield instruments ). for purposes of this discussion, high-yield instruments are defined as fixed income, emerging market, preferred equity securities and distressed debt rated bb+ or lower (or equivalent ratings by recognized credit rating agencies) as well as non-rated securities which, in the opinion of the company, contain credit risks associated with non-investment grade instruments. for purposes of this discussion, positions associated with the company credit derivatives business are not included because reporting gross market value exposures would not accurately reflect the risks associated with these positions due to the manner in which they are risk-managed. high-yield instruments generally involve greater risk than investment grade securities due to the lower credit ratings of the issuers, which typically have relatively high levels of indebtedness and, therefore, are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. in addition, the market for high-yield instruments is, and may continue to be, characterized by periods of volatility and illiquidity. the company monitors total inventory positions and risk concentrations for high-yield instruments in a manner consistent with the company market risk management policies and control structure. the company manages its aggregate and single-issuer net exposure through the use of derivatives and other financial instruments. the company records high-yield instruments at fair value. unrealized gains and losses are recognized currently in the company consolidated statements of income. at november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001, the company had high-yield instruments owned with a market value of approximately $2.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and had high-yield instruments sold, not yet purchased with a market value of $0.7 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. lending activities. in connection with certain of its business activities, the company provides to corporate clients, on a selective basis, through subsidiaries (including morgan stanley bank), loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. at november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. in connection with these business activities (which include the loans and positions discussed above and the lending commitments included in the table on page 55), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $4.4 billion at november 30, 2002 and $1.4 billion at november 30, 2001. requests to provide loans or lending commitments in connection with investment banking activities will continue and may grow in the future. 56 table of contents new office facility. in fiscal 2002, the company purchased an office facility in westchester county, new york. during fiscal 2002, the company incurred costs of approximately $55 million, including the purchase price. the company expects to incur additional project costs of approximately $265 million. the company intends to occupy the building upon project completion, which currently is anticipated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. regulatory capital requirements. ms&amp;co. and morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the nyse and the commodity futures trading commission. msil, a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and msjl, a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. ms&amp;co., msdwi, msil and msjl have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2002, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. in fiscal 2002, the fdic, in conjunction with other bank regulatory agencies, issued guidance requiring fdic-insured financial institutions to treat accrued interest receivable related to credit card securitizations as a subordinated retained interest, which will require holding higher regulatory capital beginning december 31, 2002. the company fdic-insured financial institutions will maintain capital ratios in excess of the regulatory minimums after implementing this revised guidance. certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc., the company triple-a rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. because the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, they are not significantly affected by inflation. however, inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 57 table of contents derivative financial instruments. the company actively offers to counterparties and trades for its own account a variety of financial instruments described as derivative products or derivatives. these products generally take the form of futures, forwards, options, swaps (including credit default swaps), caps, collars, floors, swap options and similar instruments that derive their value from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodities, equity instruments, equity indices, reference credits or other assets. the company trading divisions use derivative products as an integral part of their respective trading strategies, and such products are used extensively to manage the market exposure that results from a variety of proprietary trading activities (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, as a dealer in certain derivative products, most notably interest rate and currency swaps, the company enters into derivative contracts to meet a variety of risk management and other financial needs of its counterparties. given the highly integrated nature of derivative products and related cash instruments in the determination of overall trading division profitability and the context in which the company manages its trading areas, it is not meaningful to allocate trading revenues between the derivative and underlying cash instrument components. moreover, the risks associated with the company derivative activities, including market and credit risks, are managed on an integrated basis with associated cash instruments in a manner consistent with the company overall risk management policies and control structure (see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a). it should be noted that while particular risks may be associated with the use of derivatives, in many cases derivatives serve to reduce, rather than increase, the company exposure to market, credit and other risks. with respect to its derivatives positions (including both listed and otc), the company exposure to market risk relates to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair value of the underlying financial instruments or commodities. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of such contracts reported as assets. such total fair value outstanding as of november 30, 2002 was $35.6 billion. approximately $28.4 billion of that credit risk exposure was with counterparties rated single-a or better. the company also uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). the company believes that derivatives are valuable tools that can provide cost-effective solutions to complex financial problems and remains committed to providing its counterparties with innovative financial products. the company established morgan stanley derivative products inc. to offer derivative products to counterparties that will enter into derivative transactions only with triple-a rated counterparties. in addition, the company, through its continuing involvement with regulatory, self-regulatory and industry activities, provides leadership in the development of policies and practices in order to maintain confidence in the markets for derivative products, which is critical to the company ability to assist counterparties in meeting their overall financial needs. new accounting pronouncements. in august 2001, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued sfas no. 144. for long-lived assets to be held and used, sfas no. 144 retains the requirements of sfas no. 121 to recognize an impairment loss if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and to measure an impairment loss as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. in addition, sfas no. 144 retains the accounting model of sfas no. 121 to measure long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell and to cease depreciation. further, it establishes additional criteria to determine when a long-lived asset is held for sale. the company adopted sfas no. 144 on december 1, 2002. the company believes that the adoption of sfas no. 144 will not have a material effect on the company consolidated financial statements. in april 2002, the fasb issued sfas no. 145, rescission of fasb statements no. 4, 44, and 64, amendment of fasb statement no. 13, and technical corrections. under sfas no. 145, gains and losses from extinguishment of debt are to be presented as part of an entity recurring operations unless they meet the specific 58 table of contents criteria of accounting principles board ( apb ) opinion no. 30 for classification as an extraordinary item. the company adopted sfas no. 145 on december 1, 2002. as a result of the adoption of sfas no. 145, the company will reclassify an extraordinary loss of $30 million, net of income taxes, previously reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 from the early extinguishment of certain long-term borrowings to income from operations when presenting prior periods beginning with its fiscal 2003 consolidated financial statements. in august 2002, the company announced that beginning in fiscal 2003 it will expense employee stock options in accordance with sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation. under the fair value-based method of sfas no. 123, compensation expense is recognized based on the fair value of stock options on the date of grant. in december 2002, the fasb issued sfas no. 148, accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure, an amendment of fasb statement no. 123. sfas no. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based compensation. in addition, sfas no. 148 requires, on an annual basis, disclosures about the method of accounting for stock-based compensation and tabular information about the effect of the method of accounting for stock-based compensation on net income and earnings per share, including pro forma amounts, in the summary of significant accounting policies. on a quarterly basis, sfas no. 148 requires prominent disclosure in tabular form of the effect of the method of stock-based compensation on net income and earnings per share for all periods presented if awards of stock-based compensation were outstanding and accounted for under apb opinion no. 25. pursuant to its announcement to begin expensing stock options in fiscal 2003, the company adopted sfas no. 148 on december 1, 2002 and has elected the prospective method of transition to the fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based compensation. the company is in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting the fair value-based method of accounting and the recognition provisions of the prospective method of transition for stock-based employee compensation plans. in november 2002, the emerging issues task force ( eitf ) finalized the various consensuses reached in eitf issue no. 02-3, issues involved in accounting for derivative contracts held for trading purposes and contracts involved in energy trading and risk management activities. eitf issue no. 02-3 requires that all new energy and energy-related contracts entered into subsequent to october 25, 2002 that do not qualify as derivatives under sfas no. 133 be accounted for using the accrual method of accounting, rather than fair value accounting as was previously required under eitf issue no. 98-10, accounting for contracts involved in energy trading and risk management activities. energy and energy-related contracts that meet the definition of a derivative under sfas no. 133 will continue to be accounted for at fair value. energy and energy-related contracts existing prior to october 25, 2002 that do not qualify as derivatives under sfas no. 133 are to be accounted for using the accrual method of accounting with the effect reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle upon adoption of eitf issue no. 02-3. generally, the company energy and energy-related contracts qualify as derivatives under sfas no. 133 and, therefore, continue to be accounted for at fair value. in addition, eitf issue no. 02-3 requires that changes in fair value of energy and energy-related trading contracts be presented net in the consolidated statements of operations, which is consistent with the company current and past practice of recording principal transaction trading revenues. accordingly, this presentation requirement had no impact on the company consolidated statements of income. in addition, the fasb staff believes that, in the absence of (a) quoted market prices in an active market, (b) observable prices of other current market transactions or (c) other observable data supporting a valuation technique, the transaction price represents the best information available with which to estimate fair value at the inception of the arrangement for all derivatives. with respect to these criteria, the company does not have any material unrealized gains and losses and believes that the application of eitf issue no. 02-3 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. in november 2002, the fasb issued fasb interpretation no. 45 ( fin 45 ), guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others. fin 45 identifies characteristics of certain guarantee contracts and requires that a liability be recognized at fair value at the inception of such guarantees for the obligations undertaken by the guarantor. additional disclosures also are prescribed for certain guarantee contracts. the initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of fin 45 are effective for these guarantees issued or modified after december 31, 2002. the disclosure requirements of 59 table of contents fin 45 are effective for the company for its quarter ending february 28, 2003. the company currently is evaluating the impact of fin 45 on its consolidated financial statements. in january 2003, the fasb issued fasb interpretation no. 46 ( fin 46 ), consolidation of variable interest entities . fin 46 clarifies the application of accounting research bulletin no. 51, consolidated financial statements , to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties ( variable interest entities ). variable interest entities ( vies ) are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if they do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. the primary beneficiary of a vie is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests. fin 46 also requires new disclosures about vies. on february 1, 2003, the company adopted fin 46 for vies created after january 31, 2003 and for vies in which the company obtains an interest after january 31, 2003. the company will adopt fin 46 on september 1, 2003 for vies in which it holds a variable interest that it acquired before february 1, 2003. the company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of fin 46 on its consolidated financial statements. the company is involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be vies and may hold interests therein, including interest-only strip investments and derivative instruments, that may be considered variable interests. transactions associated with these entities include asset- and mortgage-backed securitizations and structured financings (including collateralized debt, bond or loan obligations and credit-linked notes). the company principally engages in these transactions to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company currently consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. for those entities deemed to be qualifying special purpose entities (as defined in sfas no. 140), which includes the credit card asset securitization master trust (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements), the company does not consolidate the entity. the company believes that it is reasonably possible that it will either disclose information in its form 10-k for fiscal 2003 about certain vies created before february 1, 2003 for which it holds a significant variable interest or it will be the primary beneficiary of the entity and thus be required to consolidate the vie on september 1, 2003. at november 30, 2002, in connection with its institutional securities business, the aggregate size of the entities for which the company interest is either significant or for which the company could be deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the entity was approximately $8.5 billion. the company variable interests associated with these entities, primarily financial asset-backed securitization and collateralized debt and bond obligation entities, was approximately $120 million, which represents the company maximum exposure to loss at november 30, 2002. in connection with its investment management business, where the company is the asset manager for collateralized bond and loan obligation entities, the aggregate size of potential vies at november 30, 2002 was approximately $2.5 billion. the company variable interests associated with its investment management activities was approximately $1 million, which represents the company maximum exposure to loss at november 30, 2002. the company purchases and sells interests in entities that may be deemed to be vies in its market-making capacity in the ordinary course of its institutional securities business. as a result of these activities, it is reasonably possible that such entities may be consolidated and deconsolidated at various points in time. therefore, the company variable interests included above may not be held by the company at its fiscal 2003 year-end. on january 8, 2003, the federal financial institutions examination council ( ffiec ) issued guidance on account management and loss allowance practices for credit card lending. the guidance addresses credit line management, overlimit practices, workout and forbearance practices and income recognition and loss allowance practices. the ffiec expects banking organizations to implement the changes needed to comply with this guidance as promptly as possible. the company is in the process of reviewing and assessing the impact of this guidance to ensure it is properly integrated into its existing policies, practices and systems and that it is in compliance with the guidance. the company does not believe, at this time, that the guidance will have a material adverse affect on its consolidated financial statements. 60 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the extent to which the company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and funding risk. funding risk is discussed in the liquidity and capital resources section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. risk management at the company is a multi-faceted process with independent oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management policies, procedures and methodologies are evolutionary in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification. the management committee, composed of the company most senior officers, establishes the company overall risk management policies and reviews its performance relative to these policies. the management committee has authorized the securities risk committee to assist in monitoring and reviewing the company market risk management practices. the securities risk committee has created sub-committees that report on specific risk management issues. these risk committees, as well as other committees established to manage and monitor specific risks, review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to the company market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, legal enforceability, and operational and systems risks. the market risk, credit, controllers, treasury, and law and compliance departments (collectively, the control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the risk committees in monitoring and controlling the company risk profile. the market risk and credit departments have operational responsibility for measuring and monitoring aggregate market and credit risk, respectively, with respect to the company institutional trading activities and are responsible for risk policy development, risk analysis and risk reporting to senior management and the risk committees. in addition, the internal audit department, which reports to senior management and the company audit committee, periodically examines and evaluates the company operations and control environment. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities trading (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. 61 table of contents market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. sound risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using value-at-risk ( var ) and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management . during fiscal 2002, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of trading in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging through the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. reports summarizing material risk exposures are produced by the market risk department and are disseminated to senior management. 62 table of contents value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 99%/one-day var corresponds to the negative change in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in every 100 trading days if the portfolio was held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e. corporate bonds and credit derivatives). var models such as the company evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. for example, during fiscal 2002, as part of the company ongoing program of var model enhancement, position and risk coverage were broadened and risk measurement methodologies were refined for certain commodity (energy, crude oil and crude-oil products) and fixed income products (credit products). among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analysis and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2002 . the table below presents the company var for each of the company primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company institutional trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk was not covered, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions involved approximations that could be significant under certain circumstances. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. 63 table of contents aggregate var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions and (b) public-company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company. the incremental impact on var of these non-trading positions was not material as of november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001, and, therefore, the table below does not separately report trading and non-trading vars. principal investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. as of november 30, 2002, the aggregate carrying value of such investments was approximately $450 million. since var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance or its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than once in 100 trading days. the table below presents var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2002 and november 30, 2001: 99%/one-day var at november 30, 2002 2001 primary market risk category (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate $ 41 $ 30 equity price 14 23 foreign exchange rate 6 6 commodity price 22 24 subtotal 83 83 less diversification benefit(1) 35 41 aggregate var $ 48 $ 42 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregate var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated 99%/one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each such category. the company aggregate var at november 30, 2002 increased from the prior year, as an increase in interest rate var was partially offset by a decrease in equity price var. the increase in interest rate var is primarily related to ongoing improvements in var methodology that more precisely capture price risk from credit products, such as credit derivatives and securitized products. the table below represents 95% var on a one-day time horizon which may be used to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms that report var at a 95% confidence interval: 95%/one-day var at november 30, 2002 2001 primary market risk category (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate $ 26 $ 19 equity price 10 15 foreign exchange rate 4 4 commodity price 15 16 subtotal 55 54 less diversification benefit 23 24 aggregate var $ 32 $ 30 64 table of contents in order to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms that report var with respect to a 10-business day holding period, the company one-day aggregate var for a two-week time horizon at november 30, 2002 was $102 million at a 95% confidence interval and $153 million at a 99% confidence interval. the tables below present the high, low and average 99% and 95%/one-day aggregate trading var over the course of fiscal 2002 for substantially all of the company institutional trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from this measure (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions): daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2002 high low average primary market risk category (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate $ 52 $ 25 $ 37 equity price 64 11 19 foreign exchange rate 16 3 7 commodity price 32 18 25 aggregate trading var $ 83 $ 39 $ 51 daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2002 high low average primary market risk category (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate $ 33 $ 16 $ 23 equity price 45 8 13 foreign exchange rate 11 2 5 commodity price 22 12 17 aggregate trading var $ 56 $ 26 $ 34 as shown in the table above, the company average 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for fiscal 2002 was $51 million. around this average, the company aggregate trading var varied from day to day. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for its institutional trading activities and shows that for more than 90% of fiscal 2002 trading days, aggregate trading var ranged between $40 million and $61 million. the days where aggregate trading var exceeded $61 million occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2002 and were primarily the result of a concentrated single-name equity exposure that was reduced prior to that quarter end. 65 table of contents one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenues is to compare the var with trading revenues. for a 99%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is three, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than five times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net revenues during fiscal 2002 for the company institutional trading businesses (including net interest, commissions and primary revenue credited to the institutional trading businesses). there were no days during fiscal 2002 in which the company incurred daily trading losses (even when excluding primary revenues) in its institutional trading business in excess of the 99%/one-day aggregate trading var. additionally, there were no trading days in fiscal 2002 where the largest one-day loss exceeded the minimum 99%/one-day aggregate trading var (as reported in the high/low/average table). this suggests that var, as currently implemented, has been a conservative measure of the potential net revenue variability in the company daily trading activities. 66 table of contents consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management . in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations; long-term borrowings; deposits; federal funds; and short-term bank notes. the company interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations . for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. a portion of the company credit card receivables have a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a 67 table of contents market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the prime, commercial paper or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2002, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $10 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2001 was estimated to be approximately $71 million. the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2002 was lower as compared with the prior year, primarily due to the impact of the assumed replacement interest rates of certain maturing fixed rate financing, reflecting the lower interest rate environment. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. credit risk. institutional securities activities. credit risk is the risk of loss to the company arising from possible borrower or counterparty default on a contractual financial commitment. credit risk arising in connection with the company institutional securities activities is managed by the credit department and various business lines, within parameters set by the company senior management. credit risk management takes place at transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate credit risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. at the obligor level, the company makes use of: credit syndication, assignment and sale; netting agreements and collateral arrangements; and purchased credit protection. in addition, the credit department periodically reviews the financial soundness of obligors of the company. for portfolios of credit exposure, the company, as appropriate, assesses credit risk concentrations and purchases portfolio credit hedges. the company has credit guidelines that limit current and potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties by type of business activity. the credit department administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. 68 table of contents the company incurs credit exposure as a dealer in otc derivatives activities. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2002. fair value is shown taking into account the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities). otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity netting(3) net exposure pre-collateral net exposure post-collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 776 $ 1,084 $ 1,240 $ 5,127 $ (2,193 ) $ 6,034 $ 2,352 aa 3,181 2,148 2,862 7,093 (3,296 ) 11,988 6,821 a 3,581 2,291 1,410 4,078 (3,118 ) 8,242 4,880 bbb 1,452 1,210 632 1,642 (744 ) 4,192 2,816 non-investment grade 757 450 159 496 (179 ) 1,683 981 unrated(4) 579 460 228 84 (22 ) 1,329 329 total $ 10,326 $ 7,643 $ 6,531 $ 18,520 $ (9,552 ) $ 33,468 $ 18,179 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties relating to the company otc derivative products. the table excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) credit ratings are determined by the company credit department, using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are net within such maturity category where appropriate. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the credit of unrated counterparties, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. in making this determination, the company takes into account various factors, including legal uncertainties and market volatility. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2002, including on a net basis, reflecting the fair value of related collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity netting(1) net exposure pre-collateral net exposure post-collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 4,627 $ 5,598 $ 6,070 $ 18,073 $ (8,988 ) $ 25,380 $ 12,142 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 2,085 247 23 20 (67 ) 2,308 2,132 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,096 729 153 96 (150 ) 1,924 782 commodity forwards, options and swaps 2,518 1,069 285 331 (347 ) 3,856 3,123 total $ 10,326 $ 7,643 $ 6,531 $ 18,520 $ (9,552 ) $ 33,468 $ 18,179 69 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased years to maturity cross-maturity netting(1) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 2,989 $ 6,976 $ 5,514 $ 11,555 $ (8,988 ) $ 18,046 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 2,295 218 30 32 (67 ) 2,508 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,477 695 343 241 (150 ) 2,606 commodity forwards, options and swaps 2,579 982 250 298 (347 ) 3,762 total $ 9,340 $ 8,871 $ 6,137 $ 12,126 $ (9,552 ) $ 26,922 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category where appropriate. each category of otc derivative products in the above table includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the fair values recorded in the above tables are determined by the company using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the company consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. as discussed under critical accounting policies, the structure of the transaction, including its maturity, is one of several important factors that may impact the price transparency. the impact of maturity on price transparency can differ significantly among product categories. for example, single currency and multi-currency interest rate derivative products involving highly standardized terms and the major currencies (e.g., the u.s. dollar or the euro) will generally have greater price transparency from published external sources even in maturity ranges beyond 20 years. credit derivatives with highly standardized terms and liquid underlying reference instruments can have price transparency from published external sources in a maturity range of five years, while equity and foreign exchange derivative products with standardized terms in major currencies can have price transparency from published external sources within a two-year maturity range. commodity derivatives with standardized terms and delivery locations can have price transparency from published external sources within various maturity ranges up to 10 years, depending on the commodity. in most instances of limited price transparency based on published external sources, dealers in these markets, in their capacities as market-makers and liquidity providers, provide price transparency beyond the above maturity ranges. individual investor activities. with respect to the company individual investor group, credit risk committees, composed of senior managers from various departments, monitor credit risk and exposure that originates from retail customers. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. consumer lending activities. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit card holders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company criteria and historical 70 table of contents data. each cardmember credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover business services merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume. concentration risk. the company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). the company seeks to limit concentration risk through the use of systems and procedures described in the preceding discussions of market and credit risk. operational risk. operational risk refers generally to the risk of loss resulting from the company operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the company operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in the company control processes. the company performs the functions required to operate its different businesses either by itself or through agreements with third parties. the company relies on the ability of its employees, its internal systems and systems at computer centers operated by third parties to process high numbers of transactions. these transactions may cross multiple markets and involve different currencies. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of the company or third-party systems or improper action by employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical systems on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the company also uses periodic self-assessments and internal audit reviews as a further check on operational risk. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels. for example, the company securities businesses have procedures that require that all transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the company books and records and are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations are subject to periodic independent review procedures; and that collateral and adequate documentation (e.g., master agreements) are obtained from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. with respect to its consumer lending activities, the company manages operational risk through its system of internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. with respect to its investment management activities, the company manages operational risk related to its various data processing systems through, among other things, internal controls such as reconciliations and various backup procedures. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to ensure compliance with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the law and compliance department, also has established procedures that are designed to ensure that senior management policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has various procedures addressing issues, such 71 table of contents as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. 72 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. in the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include reviews of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the controllers and market risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. 55 through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the company recorded fair value for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these otc derivative products. for more information regarding the company risk management practices, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. transfers of financial assets. the company engages in securitization activities in connection with certain of its businesses. gains and losses from securitizations are recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the company relinquishes control of the transferred financial assets in accordance with sfas no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities a replacement of fasb statement no. 125, and other related pronouncements. the gain or loss on the sale of financial assets depends in part on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale. in connection with its institutional securities business, the company engages in securitization transactions to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company recognizes any interests in the transferred assets and any liabilities incurred in securitization transactions in its consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. subsequently, changes in the fair value of such interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. in connection with its credit services business, the company periodically sells consumer loans through asset securitizations and continues to service these loans. the present value of the future net servicing revenues that the company estimates it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in income as the loans are securitized. a corresponding asset also is recorded and then amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized loans. the securitization gain or loss involves the company best estimates of key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward yield curves and appropriate discount rates. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different financial results. allowance for consumer loan losses. the allowance for consumer loan losses in the company credit services business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio that is evaluated quarterly for adequacy. in calculating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. the company regularly performs a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in addition, the company estimates the losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio based on coverage of a rolling average of historical credit losses. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact future credit loss experience, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see credit services provision for consumer loan losses herein). 56 aircraft under operating leases. aircraft under operating leases are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the aircraft asset, which is generally 25 years from the date of manufacture. in accordance with sfas no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, which the company adopted on december 1, 2002, the company aircraft are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the aircraft may not be recoverable. under sfas no. 144, the carrying value of an aircraft may not be recoverable if its projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value. if an aircraft projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value, the company will recognize an impairment charge equal to the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the aircraft. the fair value of the company impaired aircraft is based upon valuation information obtained from independent appraisal companies. estimates of future cash flows associated with the aircraft assets as well as the appraisals of fair value are critical to the determination of whether an impairment exists and the amount of the impairment charge, if any (see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). certain factors affecting results of operations. the company results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. in addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there has been a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. such factors also may have an impact on the company ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. the company institutional securities business, particularly its involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, including derivatives, is subject to substantial positive and negative fluctuations due to a variety of factors that the company cannot control or predict with great certainty, including variations in the fair value of securities and other financial products and the volatility and liquidity of global trading markets. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number, and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from the company principal investments. such factors also affect the level of individual investor participation in the financial markets, which impacts the results of the individual investor group. the level of global market activity also could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and supervision and the way in which such capital is allocated among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could cause fluctuations to occur in the company investment management business. in the company credit services business, changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of credit services. the company results of operations also may be materially affected by competitive factors. included among the principal competitive factors affecting the institutional securities and individual investor group businesses are the company reputation, the quality of its personnel, its products, services and advice, capital commitments, relative pricing and innovation. competition in the company investment management business is affected by a number of factors, including the company reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, relative performance of investment products, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, distribution channels, and types and quality of services offered. in the credit services business, competition centers on merchant acceptance of credit cards, account acquisition and customer utilization of credit cards, all of which are impacted by the types of fees, interest rates and other features offered. 57 the company strives to increase market share in all of its businesses and evaluates the competitive position of its businesses by, among other things, monitoring various market share data. for example, in the institutional securities investment banking business, the company monitors its market share in key areas such as announced and completed worldwide mergers and acquisitions, worldwide equity underwritings and worldwide investment grade debt underwritings. in the institutional securities sales and trading business, the company monitors its market share via independent client surveys as well as its market share of global exchange and non-exchange volumes. in the individual investor group business, the company monitors its market share of client assets and the number of financial advisors. in the investment management business, the company monitors its market share of assets under management or supervision and mutual fund flows among mutual fund managers. it also monitors the relative performance of its funds as determined by organizations such as morningstar and lipper. in the credit services business, the company monitors its ranking in the number of merchant and cash access locations, the level of general purpose credit card loan balances outstanding, transaction volume and the credit quality of its loan portfolio. besides competition from firms traditionally engaged in the financial services business, competition exists from other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. the financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services industries have merged. such convergence has continued and could result in the company competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. in addition, the company has experienced competition for qualified employees. the company ability to sustain or improve its competitive position will substantially depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation costs. as a result of the above economic and competitive factors, net income and revenues in any particular period may not be representative of full-year results and may vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to quarter. the company intends to manage its business for the long term and to mitigate the potential effects of market downturns by strengthening its competitive position in the global financial services industry through diversification of its revenue sources, enhancement of its global franchise, and management of costs and its capital structure. the company overall financial results will continue to be affected by its ability and success in addressing client goals; maintaining high levels of profitable business activities; emphasizing fee-based products that are designed to generate a continuing stream of revenues; evaluating product pricing; managing risks, costs and its capital position; and maintaining its strong reputation and franchise. in addition, the complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management and other infrastructure challenges that will require effective resource allocation in order for the company to remain competitive. 58 liquidity and capital resources. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company. through various risk and control committees, the company senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. these committees, along with the company treasury department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the company business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the company liquidity and capital policies. for a description of the company other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. the balance sheet. the company total assets increased to $602.8 billion at november 30, 2003 from $529.5 billion at november 30, 2002. the increase was primarily attributable to increases in financial instruments owned, largely driven by corporate and other debt inventories and increases in the value of derivatives. growth in equity financing activities, including securities borrowed and receivables from customers, also contributed to the increase. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. this ratio is adjusted to reflect the low-risk nature of assets attributable to matched reverse repurchase agreements, certain securities borrowed transactions and segregated customer cash balances. in addition, the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill, as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs. the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets, leverage ratios and book value per share: at november 30, 2003 2002 (dollars in millions, except ratio and per share data) total assets $ 602,843 $ 529,499 less: lesser of securities purchased under agreements to resell or securities sold under agreements to repurchase (78,205 ) (76,910 ) assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) interpretation no. 46 ( fin 46 ) (35,217 ) (19,224 ) lesser of securities borrowed or securities loaned (64,375 ) (43,229 ) segregated customer cash and securities balances (20,705 ) (30,217 ) goodwill (1,514 ) (1,449 ) adjusted assets $ 402,827 $ 358,470 shareholders equity $ 24,867 $ 21,885 preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption 2,810 1,210 subtotal 27,677 23,095 less: goodwill (1,514 ) (1,449 ) tangible shareholders equity $ 26,163 $ 21,646 leverage ratio(1) 23.0 x 24.5 x adjusted leverage ratio(2) 15.4 x 16.6 x book value per share(3) $ 22.93 $ 20.24 59 (1) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (2) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (3) book value per share equals shareholders equity divided by common shares outstanding of 1,085 million at november 30, 2003 and 1,081 million at november 30, 2002. equity capital management policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity base adequately reflects and provides some protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company securities inventories, underwritings, principal investments, private equity activities, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, and investments in fixed assets, including aircraft assets. the company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. at november 30, 2003, the company equity capital (which includes shareholders equity and preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption) was $27.7 billion, an increase of $4.6 billion from november 30, 2002. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. the board of directors has authorized the company to purchase, subject to market conditions and certain other factors, shares of common stock for capital management purposes. the unused portion of this authorization at january 31, 2004 was approximately $600 million. the company also has an ongoing repurchase authorization in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. in december 2003, the board of directors increased the quarterly dividend per common share by 9% to $0.25. liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company funding and liquidity activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. given the highly liquid nature of the company balance sheet, day-to-day funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of collateralized financing. in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand an unforeseen contraction in credit availability, the company has designed a liquidity management framework. this framework is intended to ensure that the company maintains sufficient liquidity to continue to fund its ongoing business and to meet all of its financial obligations maturing within a one-year period without issuing any new unsecured debt. liquidity management framework: designed to: cash capital policy ensure that the company can fund its balance sheet while repaying its financial obligations maturing within one year without issuing new unsecured debt. the company attempts to achieve this by maintaining sufficient cash capital (long-term debt and equity capital) to finance illiquid assets and the portion of its securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment. liquidity reserve maintain, at all times, a liquidity reserve in the form of immediately available cash and cash equivalents to cover volatility in day-to-day funding needs. the reserve is periodically assessed and determined based on funding volatility and liquidity targets and averaged approximately $20 billion during fiscal 2003. contingency planning maintain the company contingency funding plan to ascertain the company ability to manage a prolonged liquidity contraction and provide a course of action over a one-year time period to ensure orderly functioning of the company businesses. the company contingency funding plan sets forth the process and the internal and external communication flows necessary to ensure effective management of the contingency event. 60 the company also pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by products and markets) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities (described below) to support its ongoing borrowing programs. the level of the company borrowings is continually adjusted to maintain the target cash liquidity reserve after meeting the company daily funding requirements. the company funding requirements will vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors. funding management policies. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, euro, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposits issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposits. unsecured debt and borrowings. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the company credit services business) are used to finance the company consumer loan portfolio. consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. the company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). the company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its cash capital policy. in addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the company liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. during fiscal 2003, the company long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improved balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. as a result, for fiscal 2003, approximately $20 billion of unsecured 61 debt was issued (excluding certain equity and credit-linked products not considered to be a component of the company cash capital) with over 70% of these transactions having a maturity of five years or longer. financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, while a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $12 billion and a corresponding $15 billion reduction in the level of short-term commercial paper outstanding at fiscal year-end. the company total capital base primarily consists of equity capital combined with long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) and preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption. at november 30, 2003, total capital was $83 billion, an increase of $17 billion from november 30, 2002. the company maintains borrowing relationships with a broad range of banks, financial institutions, counterparties and others from which it draws funds in a variety of currencies. the company values committed credit as a significant component of its liquidity policy. committed credit facilities. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of two separate tranches: a u.s. dollar tranche with the company as borrower and a japanese yen tranche with morgan stanley japan limited ( msjl ) as borrower and the company as guarantor. under this combined facility (the ms-msjl facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $5.5 billion under the u.s. dollar tranche and 70 billion japanese yen under the japanese yen tranche. at november 30, 2003, the company had a $10.6 billion surplus shareholders equity as compared with the ms-msjl facility covenant requirement. the company maintains a master collateral facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co. ), one of the company u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial accommodations (the ms&amp;co. facility ). as part of the ms&amp;co. facility, ms&amp;co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.8 billion. at november 30, 2003, ms&amp;co. had a $2.5 billion surplus consolidated stockholder equity and a $1.6 billion surplus net capital, each as defined in the ms&amp;co. facility and as compared with the ms&amp;co. facility covenant requirements. the company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. international limited ( msil ), the company london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, to obtain committed funding from a syndicate of banks (the msil facility ) by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements for a secured repo facility and a company guarantee for an unsecured facility. the syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion, available in six major currencies. at november 30, 2003, msil had a $1.2 billion surplus shareholder equity and a $1.9 billion surplus financial resources, each as defined in the msil facility and as compared with the msil facility covenant requirements. the company anticipates that it may utilize the ms-msjl facility, the ms&amp;co. facility or the msil facility (the credit facilities ) for short-term funding from time to time (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in any of its credit facilities will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facilities, to pay its current level of dividends, or to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2003, no borrowings were outstanding under any of the credit facilities. the company and its subsidiaries also maintain a series of committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. these facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. 62 the committed credit facilities demonstrate the diversity of lenders to the company covering geographic regions including north america, europe and asia pacific. credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or otherwise affect the ability of the company to raise short-term and long-term financing include its: level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, global and product diversification, risk management policies, cash liquidity and capital structure. in addition, the agencies that rate the company debt have focused on changes in the market that may require financial services firms to assume more credit risk in connection with their corporate lending activities and recent legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured financings. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either standard &amp; poor or moody investors service. at november 30, 2003, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $945 million. as of january 31, 2004, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings f1+ aa- moody investors service p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc. a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor a-1 a+ fiscal 2003 activity. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2003, the company issued senior notes aggregating $22.0 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $6.9 billion. the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2003, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company public debt shelf registration statements) was approximately $94.9 billion (including senior indebtedness consisting of guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). subsequent to fiscal year-end and through january 31, 2004, the company long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $8.4 billion. during fiscal 2003, the company purchased approximately $350 million of its common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $39.12. during fiscal 2003, morgan stanley capital trust iii, a consolidated delaware statutory trust (the capital trust iii ), all of the common securities of which are owned by the company, issued $880 million of 6.25% capital securities (the capital securities iii ) that are guaranteed by the company. the capital trust iii issued the capital securities iii and invested the proceeds in 6.25% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the company, which are due march 1, 2033. 63 during fiscal 2003, morgan stanley capital trust iv, a consolidated delaware statutory trust (the capital trust iv ), all of the common securities of which are owned by the company, issued $620 million of 6.25% capital securities (the capital securities iv ) that are guaranteed by the company. the capital trust iv issued the capital securities iv and invested the proceeds in 6.25% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the company, which are due april 1, 2033. during fiscal 2003, morgan stanley capital trust v, a consolidated delaware statutory trust (the capital trust v ), all of the common securities of which are owned by the company, issued $500 million of 5.75% capital securities (the capital securities v ) that are guaranteed by the company. the capital trust v issued the capital securities v and invested the proceeds in 5.75% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the company, which are due july 15, 2033. during fiscal 2003, the company redeemed all $400 million of its 7.10% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by msdw capital trust i. the company also simultaneously redeemed all of the outstanding 7.10% capital securities of msdw capital trust i at a redemption price of $25 per share. off-balance sheet arrangements. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities and credit services businesses. institutional securities activities . the company utilizes special purpose entities ( spes ) primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, municipal bonds, and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the company institutional securities business were approximately $2.4 billion at november 30, 2003, the majority of which were related to u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligation, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. for further information about the company institutional securities securitization activities, see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information about variable interest entities, the company arrangements with these entities and its adoption of fin 46. the company has entered into liquidity facilities with spes and other counterparties whereby the company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. the company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the spes in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). credit services activities. the asset securitization market is a significant source of funding for the company credit services business. by utilizing this market, the company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the company other funding sources, including unsecured debt. the securitization transaction structures utilized for the credit services business are accounted for as sales; i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with u.s. gaap (see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in connection with its credit card securitization program, the company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to the trusts, which issue asset-backed securities that are registered with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ), are used to support the issuance of publicly listed notes or are privately placed. this structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions, potentially resulting in the need for the company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. the primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ( economic early amortization ). 64 economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trusts credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. in the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trusts from the company would instead continue to be recognized on the company consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trusts would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. these recognized receivables would require the company to obtain alternative funding. although the company believes that the combination of factors that would result in an economic early amortization event is remote, the company also believes its access to alternative funding sources would mitigate this potential liquidity risk. a group of banks are committed to provide up to $1.3 billion under a credit facility that supports the short-term extendible asset-backed certificate program issued by the discover card master trust i. contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. in connection with its operating activities, the company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations pursuant to its long-term debt and operating leases as of november 30, 2003 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2004 fiscal 2005-2006 fiscal 2007-2008 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 10,574 $ 21,802 $ 9,636 $ 23,588 $ 65,600 operating leases(2) 490 926 684 2,502 4,602 total $ 11,064 $ 22,728 $ 10,320 $ 26,090 $ 70,202 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, private equity and other principal investment activities, and lending and financing commitments as of november 30, 2003 are summarized below by period of expiration. since commitments associated with letters of credit and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: fiscal 2004 fiscal 2005-2006 fiscal 2007-2008 thereafter total (dollars in millions) letters of credit(1)(2) $ 7,703 $ $ $ $ 7,703 private equity and other principal investments(1)(3) 242 112 8 105 467 investment grade lending commitments(1)(4)(6) 8,161 2,229 3,729 125 14,244 non-investment grade lending commitments(1)(4)(6) 317 462 432 658 1,869 commitments for secured lending transactions(1)(5) 6,465 3,175 185 9,825 total $ 22,888 $ 5,978 $ 4,169 $ 1,073 $ 34,108 (1) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) this amount represents the company outstanding letters of credit, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral requirements. (3) this amount represents the company commitments in connection with its private equity and other principal investment activities. 65 (4) the company investment grade and non-investment grade lending commitments are made in connection with its corporate lending activities. see less liquid assets lending activities herein. (5) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. (6) credit ratings are determined by the company credit department, using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. the table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $263 billion. such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. these commitments, substantially all of which the company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. at november 30, 2003, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $45 billion and $30 billion, respectively. less liquid assets. at november 30, 2003, certain assets of the company, such as real property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $2.4 billion, aircraft assets of $4.4 billion and goodwill of $1.5 billion, were illiquid. certain equity investments made in connection with the company private equity and other principal investment activities, certain high-yield debt securities, certain collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan products, bridge financings, and certain senior secured loans and positions also are not highly liquid. at november 30, 2003, the company had aggregate principal investments associated with its private equity and other principal investment activities (including direct investments and partnership interests) with a carrying value of approximately $850 million, of which approximately $300 million represented the company investments in its real estate funds. high-yield instruments. in connection with the company fixed income securities activities, the company underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets in non-investment grade instruments ( high-yield instruments ). for purposes of this discussion, high-yield instruments are defined as fixed income, emerging market, preferred equity securities and distressed debt rated bb+ or lower (or equivalent ratings by recognized credit rating agencies) as well as non-rated securities which, in the opinion of the company, contain credit risks associated with non-investment grade instruments. for purposes of this discussion, positions associated with the company credit derivatives business are not included because reporting gross market value exposures would not accurately reflect the risks associated with these positions due to the manner in which they are risk-managed. high-yield instruments generally involve greater risk than investment grade securities due to the lower credit ratings of the issuers, which typically have relatively high levels of indebtedness and, therefore, are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. in addition, the market for high-yield instruments can be characterized by periods of volatility and illiquidity. the company monitors total inventory positions and risk concentrations for high-yield instruments in a manner consistent with the company market risk management policies and control structure. the company manages its aggregate and single-issuer net exposure through the use of derivatives and other financial instruments. the company records high-yield instruments at fair value. unrealized gains and losses are recognized currently in the company consolidated statements of income. at november 30, 2003 and 66 november 30, 2002, the company had high-yield instruments owned with a market value of approximately $3.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, and had high-yield instruments sold, not yet purchased with a market value of $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. lending activities. in connection with certain of its business activities, the company provides to corporate clients, on a selective basis, through subsidiaries (including morgan stanley bank), loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, the aggregate value of loans and positions and lending commitments (see the table on page 65) outstanding was $17.8 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. in connection with these business activities (including the loans and positions and the lending commitments), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $5.5 billion at november 30, 2003 and $4.4 billion at november 30, 2002. at january 31, 2004, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $2.3 billion and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $1.4 billion. at january 31, 2004, the aggregate value of investment grade lending commitments was $16.0 billion and the aggregate value of non-investment grade lending commitments was $4.9 billion. requests to provide loans or lending commitments in connection with investment banking activities will continue in the future. new office facility. in fiscal 2002, the company purchased an office facility in westchester county, new york and incurred costs of approximately $55 million, including the purchase price. during fiscal 2003, the company incurred additional costs of approximately $120 million. the company expects to incur additional project costs of approximately $135 million in fiscal 2004. the company intends to complete the project and occupy the building in fiscal 2004. regulatory capital requirements. ms&amp;co. and morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the new york stock exchange and the commodity futures trading commission. msil, a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and msjl, a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. ms&amp;co., msdwi, msil and msjl have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the federal deposit insurance corporation (the fdic ) and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2003, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. in fiscal 2002, the fdic, in conjunction with other bank regulatory agencies, issued guidance requiring fdic-insured financial institutions to treat accrued interest receivable related to credit card securitizations as a subordinated retained interest, which required holding higher regulatory capital beginning december 31, 2002. the company fdic-insured financial institutions have maintained capital ratios in excess of the regulatory minimums since implementing this revised guidance. certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the 67 countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc., the company triple-a rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. because the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, they are not significantly affected by inflation. however, inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. new accounting developments. variable interest entities. in january 2003, the fasb issued fin 46, which clarifies the application of accounting research bulletin no. 51, consolidated financial statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties ( variable interest entities ). variable interest entities ( vie ) are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if they do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. under fin 46, the primary beneficiary of a vie is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests. fin 46 also requires new disclosures about vies (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). the company is involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be vies and may hold interests therein, including interest-only strip investments and derivative instruments, that may be considered variable interests. transactions associated with these entities include asset and mortgage-backed securitizations and structured financings (including collateralized debt, bond or loan obligations and credit-linked notes). the company engages in these transactions principally to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company currently consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest in accordance with u.s. gaap. for those entities deemed to be qualifying special purpose entities (as defined in sfas no. 140), which includes the credit card asset securitization master trusts (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements), the company does not consolidate the entity. on february 1, 2003, the company adopted fin 46 for vies created after january 31, 2003 and for vies in which the company obtains an interest after january 31, 2003. in october 2003, the fasb deferred the effective date of fin 46 for arrangements with vies existing prior to february 1, 2003 to fiscal periods ending after december 15, 2003. in december 2003, the fasb issued a revision of fin 46 ( fin 46r ) to address certain technical corrections and implementation issues that have arisen. the company anticipates adopting fin 46r as of february 29, 2004 for vies in which it holds a variable interest that it had acquired before february 1, 2003 in addition to those vies for which the company has previously applied fin 46. the company will apply fin 46r for all variable interests obtained after february 29, 2004. for these variable interests, the company will 68 consolidate those vies (including financial asset-backed securitization, credit-linked note, structured note, municipal bond trust, equity-linked note and exchangeable trust entities) in which the company is the primary beneficiary. this accounting change is not expected to have a material effect on the company consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. in limited instances, the company may deconsolidate vies for which it is not the primary beneficiary as a result of the adoption of fin 46r. this is further discussed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements with respect to the statutory trusts associated with the issuance of preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption. gains and losses from extinguishment of debt. in april 2002, the fasb issued sfas no. 145, rescission of fasb statements no. 4, 44 and 64, amendment of fasb statement no. 13, and technical corrections. under sfas no. 145, gains and losses from extinguishment of debt are to be presented as part of an entity recurring operations unless they meet the specific criteria of apb opinion no. 30 for classification as an extraordinary item. as a result, the company has reclassified an extraordinary loss from the early extinguishment of certain long-term borrowings of $30 million, net of income taxes, previously reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 to income from operations. the pre-tax loss ($50 million) was recorded in other expenses, and the related tax benefit ($20 million) was recorded in provision for income taxes. pensions and other postretirement benefits. in december 2003, the fasb made certain revisions to sfas no. 132, employers disclosures about pensions and other postretirement benefits. the revised statement requires additional disclosures about employers pension and other postretirement plans while also retaining the disclosures originally required by sfas no. 132. the new required disclosures include information describing the types of plan assets, investment strategy, measurement dates, plan obligations and cash flows. in addition, the revised statement requires certain disclosures during interim periods. the revised statement is generally effective for fiscal years ending after december 15, 2003. however, the company has included the disclosures required by the revised statement in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. derivative financial instruments. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the company adopted the provisions of emerging issues task force ( eitf ) issue no. 02-3, issues involved in accounting for derivative contracts held for trading purposes and contracts involved in energy trading and risk management activities. under the provisions of eitf issue no. 02-3, in the absence of observable market prices or parameters in an active market, observable prices or parameters of other comparable current market transactions, or other observable data supporting a fair value based on a pricing model at the inception of a contract, profit recognition at the inception of an otc derivative financial instrument is not permitted. stock-based compensation. effective december 1, 2002, the company adopted sfas no. 123, as amended by sfas no. 148, using the prospective adoption method. the company now records compensation expense based upon the fair value of stock-based awards (both deferred stock and stock options). in prior years, the company accounted for its stock-based awards under the intrinsic value approach in accordance with apb 25 (see equity-based compensation program herein and notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements). 69 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the extent to which the company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and funding risk. funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. risk management at the company is a multi-faceted process with independent oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management policies, procedures and methodologies are evolutionary in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification. the management committee, composed of the company most senior officers, establishes the company overall risk management policies and reviews its performance relative to these policies. the management committee has authorized the securities risk committee to assist in monitoring and reviewing the risk management practices of the company institutional securities business. the securities risk committee has created subcommittees that report on specific risk management matters associated with the institutional securities business. in addition, the company other business areas have established committees to manage and monitor specific risks. these committees and subcommittees review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to the company market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technology risks. representation on these committees by senior management of both the business units and the relevant independent control functions helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the market risk, credit, controllers, treasury, and law departments (collectively, the control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the risk committees in monitoring and controlling the company risk profile. the market risk and credit departments have operational responsibility for measuring and monitoring aggregate market and credit risk, respectively, with respect to the company institutional trading activities and are responsible for risk policy development, risk analysis and risk reporting to senior management and the risk committees. in addition, the internal audit department, which reports to senior management and the company audit committee, periodically examines and evaluates the company operations and control environment. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities trading (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company 70 market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using value-at-risk ( var ) and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analysis conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management . during fiscal 2003, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging through the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. 71 the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analysis, which estimates the company revenue sensitivity to a series of specific predefined market and geopolitical events. reports summarizing material risk exposures are produced by the market risk department and are disseminated to senior management, including the management committee and the securities risk committee. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 99%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in every 100 trading days if the portfolio was held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company 72 is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analysis and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2003 . the table below presents the company var for each of the company primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var (e.g., certain credit default baskets), and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. aggregate var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to trading positions and (b) public-company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company. principal investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. as of november 30, 2003, the aggregate carrying value of such investments was approximately $460 million. since var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than once in 100 trading days. the table below presents var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002: trading and non-trading trading table 1: 99% aggregate var 99%/one-day var at november 30, 99%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2003 2002 2003 2002 (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 52 $ 41 $ 45 $ 45 equity price 32 14 30 14 foreign exchange rate 7 6 7 6 commodity price 22 22 22 22 subtotal 113 83 104 87 less diversification benefit(1) 50 35 46 34 aggregate var $ 63 $ 48 $ 58 $ 53 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregate var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated 99%/one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each such category. the company aggregate trading and non-trading var at november 30, 2003 increased from the prior year, driven predominantly by increases in interest rate and credit spread and equity price var. the increase in year-end interest rate and credit spread var was primarily related to increased exposure to credit sensitive products, including investment grade corporate debt and high-credit-quality asset-backed products. the increase in year-end equity price var was primarily related to increased diversified exposures to liquid securities in global equity markets. for a more representative summary of var over the course of the fiscal year, please refer to average var in table 3 below. 73 the table below represents 95% var on a one-day time horizon, which may be used to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms that report var at a 95% confidence interval: trading and non-trading trading table 2: 95% aggregate var 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2003 2002 2003 2002 (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 30 $ 26 $ 29 $ 28 equity price 22 10 21 10 foreign exchange rate 5 4 5 4 commodity price 15 15 15 15 subtotal 72 55 70 57 less diversification benefit 30 23 30 22 aggregate var $ 42 $ 32 $ 40 $ 35 in order to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms that report var with respect to a 10-business day holding period, the company one-day aggregate trading and non-trading var for a two-week time horizon at november 30, 2003 was $134 million at a 95% confidence interval and $200 million at a 99% confidence interval. the tables below present the high, low and average 99% and 95%/one-day aggregate trading var over the course of fiscal 2003 for substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from this measure (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions): table 3: 99% high/low/average trading var daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2003 primary market risk category high low average (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 54 $ 33 $ 43 equity price 50 14 25 foreign exchange rate 32 3 11 commodity price 42 21 27 aggregate trading var $ 73 $ 45 $ 55 table 4: 95% high/low/average trading var daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2003 primary market risk category high low average (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 33 $ 20 $ 26 equity price 35 10 18 foreign exchange rate 20 2 7 commodity price 27 13 18 aggregate trading var $ 50 $ 32 $ 38 as shown in table 3 above, the company average 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for fiscal 2003 was $55 million. around this average, the company aggregate trading var varied from day to day. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for its trading activities and shows that for more than 90% of fiscal 2003 trading days, aggregate trading var ranged between $49 million and $65 million. the days where aggregate trading var exceeded $65 million occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and were primarily the result of a concentrated single-name equity exposure that was reduced prior to that quarter end. 74 one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenues is to compare the var with trading revenues. for a 99%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is three, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than five times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net revenues during fiscal 2003 for the company institutional trading businesses (including net interest and commissions and excluding primary revenue credited to the institutional trading businesses). there were no days during fiscal 2003 in which the company incurred daily trading losses (even when excluding primary revenues) in its institutional trading business in excess of the 99%/one-day aggregate trading var. additionally, there were no trading days in fiscal 2003 where the largest one-day loss exceeded the low 99%/one-day aggregate trading var (as reported in the high/low/average table). 75 consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management . in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations, long-term borrowings, deposits and federal funds. the company interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations . for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. a portion of the company credit card receivables has a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the prime, commercial paper or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2003, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $55 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2002 76 was estimated to be approximately $10 million. the increase in the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2003 was due to a higher level of variable rate financing, partially offset by a higher level of variable interest rate assets as compared with the prior-year period. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. credit risk. institutional securities activities. credit risk is the risk of loss to the company arising from possible borrower or counterparty default on a contractual financial commitment. credit risk arising in connection with the company institutional securities activities is managed by the credit department and various business lines, within parameters set by the company senior management. credit risk management takes place at transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate credit risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. at the obligor level, the company makes use of: credit syndication, assignment and sale; netting agreements and collateral arrangements; and derivatives and other financial instruments. in addition, the credit department periodically reviews the financial soundness of obligors of the company. for portfolios of credit exposure, the company, as appropriate, assesses credit risk concentrations and purchases portfolio credit hedges. the company has credit guidelines that limit current and potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties by type of business activity. the credit department administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. the company incurs credit exposure as a dealer in otc derivatives activities. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2003. fair value is shown taking into account the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 cross-maturity netting(3) net exposure pre-collateral net exposure post-collateral (dollars in millions) aaa $ 632 $ 2,077 $ 1,675 $ 5,425 $ (2,566 ) $ 7,243 $ 3,621 aa 6,153 3,509 2,729 7,903 (5,609 ) 14,685 8,745 a 3,953 2,563 2,221 4,092 (2,496 ) 10,333 5,702 bbb 2,347 1,616 1,194 2,374 (1,147 ) 6,384 4,433 non-investment grade 1,125 521 298 597 (232 ) 2,309 1,366 unrated(4) 950 353 46 54 (11 ) 1,392 82 total $ 15,160 $ 10,639 $ 8,163 $ 20,445 $ (12,061 ) $ 42,346 $ 23,949 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties relating to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. 77 (2) credit ratings are determined by the company credit department, using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are net within such maturity category where appropriate. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the credit of unrated counterparties, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. in making this determination, the company takes into account various factors, including legal uncertainties and market volatility. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2003, including on a net basis, reflecting the fair value of related collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 cross-maturity netting(1) net exposure pre-collateral net exposure post-collateral (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 3,962 $ 7,382 $ 6,998 $ 19,823 $ (11,080 ) $ 27,085 $ 12,193 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 5,554 442 101 12 (151 ) 5,958 5,384 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,375 737 329 185 (161 ) 2,465 964 commodity forwards, options and swaps 4,269 2,078 735 425 (669 ) 6,838 5,408 total $ 15,160 $ 10,639 $ 8,163 $ 20,445 $ (12,061 ) $ 42,346 $ 23,949 otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased years to maturity product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 cross- maturity netting(1) total (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 5,096 $ 7,142 $ 5,607 $ 12,139 $ (11,080 ) $ 18,904 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 5,226 381 85 16 (151 ) 5,557 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,007 1,148 434 367 (161 ) 2,795 commodity forwards, options and swaps 4,231 1,628 532 173 (669 ) 5,895 total $ 15,560 $ 10,299 $ 6,658 $ 12,695 $ (12,061 ) $ 33,151 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category where appropriate. 78 each category of otc derivative products in the above table includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the fair values recorded in the above tables are determined by the company using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the company consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. as discussed under critical accounting policies, the structure of the transaction, including its maturity, is one of several important factors that may impact the price transparency. the impact of maturity on price transparency can differ significantly among product categories. for example, single currency and multi-currency interest rate derivative products involving highly standardized terms and the major currencies (e.g., the u.s. dollar or the euro) will generally have greater price transparency from published external sources even in maturity ranges beyond 20 years. credit derivatives with highly standardized terms and liquid underlying reference instruments can have price transparency from published external sources in a maturity ranging up to 10 years, while equity and foreign exchange derivative products with standardized terms in major currencies can have price transparency from published external sources within a two-year maturity range. commodity derivatives with standardized terms and delivery locations can have price transparency from published external sources within various maturity ranges up to 10 years, depending on the commodity. in most instances of limited price transparency based on published external sources, dealers in these markets, in their capacities as market-makers and liquidity providers, provide price transparency beyond the above maturity ranges. individual investor activities. with respect to the company individual investor group, credit risk committees, composed of senior managers from various departments, monitor credit risk and exposure that originates from retail customers. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. consumer lending activities. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit card holders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company criteria and historical data. each cardmember credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover business services merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants, with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume. operational risk. operational risk refers generally to the risk of loss resulting from the company operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the company operating systems, inadequacies or breaches in the company control processes and business interruptions. the company performs the functions required to operate its different businesses either by itself or through agreements with third parties. the company relies on the ability of its employees, its internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process high numbers of transactions. these transactions may cross multiple markets and involve different currencies. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of the company or third-party systems or improper action by employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. 79 the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels. for example, the company securities businesses have procedures that require: that all transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the company books and records and are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations are subject to periodic independent review procedures; and that collateral and adequate documentation are obtained from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. with respect to its investment management activities, the company manages operational risk related to its various data processing systems through, among other things, internal controls such as reconciliations and various backup procedures. with respect to its consumer lending activities, the company manages operational risk through its system of internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. the company also uses periodic self-assessments and internal audit reviews as a further check on operational risk. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; data and applications recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis and training. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. through organizations promoting information security, such as the financial services information sharing analysis center and various other resources focused on information security, the company continues to enhance its ability to detect and defend against cyber threats. the company also utilizes the services of various external vendors who provide services in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the law division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the current legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 80quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. in the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include reviews of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the controllers and market risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the company recorded fair value for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to 45 table of contents aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these otc derivative products. for more information regarding the company risk management practices, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. transfers of financial assets. the company engages in securitization activities in connection with certain of its businesses. gains and losses from securitizations are recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the company relinquishes control of the transferred financial assets in accordance with sfas no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities a replacement of fasb statement no. 125, and other related pronouncements. the gain or loss on the sale of financial assets depends in part on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale. in connection with its institutional securities business, the company engages in securitization transactions to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company recognizes any interests in the transferred assets and any liabilities incurred in securitization transactions in its consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. subsequently, changes in the fair value of such interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. in connection with its credit services business, the company periodically sells consumer loans through asset securitizations and continues to service these loans. the present value of the future net servicing revenues that the company estimates it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in income as the loans are securitized. a corresponding asset also is recorded and then amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized loans. the securitization gain or loss involves the company best estimates of key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward yield curves and appropriate discount rates. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different financial results. allowance for consumer loan losses. the allowance for consumer loan losses in the company credit services business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio that is evaluated quarterly for adequacy. in calculating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. the company regularly performs a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in addition, the company estimates the losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio based on coverage of a rolling average of historical credit losses. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact future credit loss experience, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see credit services provision for consumer loan losses herein). aircraft under operating leases. aircraft under operating leases are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the aircraft asset, which is generally 25 years from the date of manufacture. in accordance with sfas no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, which the company adopted on december 1, 2002, the company aircraft are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the aircraft may not be recoverable. under sfas no. 144, the carrying value of an aircraft may not be recoverable if its projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value. if an aircraft projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value, the company will recognize an impairment charge equal to the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the aircraft. the fair value of the company impaired aircraft is based upon valuation information obtained from independent appraisal companies. estimates of future cash flows associated with the aircraft assets as well as the appraisals of fair value are critical to the determination of whether an impairment exists and the amount of the impairment charge, if any (see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). 46 table of contents certain factors affecting results of operations. the company results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. in addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there has been a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. such factors also may have an impact on the company ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. the company institutional securities business, particularly its involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, including derivatives, is subject to substantial positive and negative fluctuations due to a variety of factors that the company cannot control or predict with great certainty, including variations in the fair value of securities and other financial products and the volatility and liquidity of global trading markets. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number, and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from the company principal investments. such factors also affect the level of individual investor participation in the financial markets, which impacts the results of the individual investor group. the level of global market activity also could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and supervision and the way in which such capital is allocated among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could cause fluctuations to occur in the company investment management business. in the company credit services business, changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of credit services. the company results of operations also may be materially affected by competitive factors. included among the principal competitive factors affecting the institutional securities and individual investor group businesses are the company reputation, the quality of its personnel, its products, services and advice, capital commitments, relative pricing and innovation. competition in the company investment management business is affected by a number of factors, including the company reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, relative performance of investment products, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, distribution channels, and types and quality of services offered. in the credit services business, competition centers on merchant acceptance of credit cards, account acquisition and customer utilization of credit cards, all of which are impacted by the types of fees, interest rates and other features offered. the company strives to increase market share in all of its businesses and evaluates the competitive position of its businesses by, among other things, monitoring various market share data. for example, in the institutional securities investment banking business, the company monitors its market share in key areas such as announced and completed worldwide mergers and acquisitions, worldwide equity underwritings and worldwide investment grade debt underwritings. in the institutional securities sales and trading business, the company monitors its market share via independent client surveys as well as its market share of global exchange and non-exchange volumes. in the individual investor group business, the company monitors its market share of client assets and the number of financial advisors. in the investment management business, the company monitors its market share of assets under management or supervision and mutual fund flows among mutual fund managers. it also monitors the relative performance of its funds as determined by organizations such as morningstar and lipper. in the credit services business, the company monitors its ranking in the number of merchant and cash access locations, the level of general purpose credit card loan balances outstanding, transaction volume and the credit quality of its loan portfolio. besides competition from firms traditionally engaged in the financial services business, competition exists from other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. the financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services industries have merged. such convergence has continued and could result in the company competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. in addition, the company has experienced competition for qualified employees. the company ability to sustain or improve its competitive position will substantially depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation costs. as a result of the above economic and competitive factors, net income and revenues in any particular period may not be representative of full-year results and may vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to quarter. the company intends to manage its business for the long term and to mitigate the potential effects of market downturns by strengthening its competitive position in the global financial services industry through diversification of its revenue sources, enhancement of its global franchise, and management of costs and its capital structure. the company overall financial results will continue to be affected by its ability and success in 47 table of contents addressing client goals; maintaining high levels of profitable business activities; emphasizing fee-based products that are designed to generate a continuing stream of revenues; evaluating product pricing; managing risks, costs and its capital position; and maintaining its strong reputation and franchise. in addition, the complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management and other infrastructure challenges that will require effective resource allocation in order for the company to remain competitive. liquidity and capital resources. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company. through various risk and control committees, the company senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. these committees, along with the company treasury department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the company business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the company liquidity and capital policies. for a description of the company other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. the balance sheet. the company total assets increased to $602.8 billion at november 30, 2003 from $529.5 billion at november 30, 2002. the increase was primarily attributable to increases in financial instruments owned, largely driven by corporate and other debt inventories and increases in the value of derivatives. growth in equity financing activities, including securities borrowed and receivables from customers, also contributed to the increase. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. this ratio is adjusted to reflect the low-risk nature of assets attributable to matched reverse repurchase agreements, certain securities borrowed transactions and segregated customer cash balances. in addition, the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill, as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs. the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets, leverage ratios and book value per share: at november 30, 2003 2002 (dollars in millions, except ratio and per share data) total assets $ 602,843 $ 529,499 less: lesser of securities purchased under agreements to resell or securities sold under agreements to repurchase (78,205 ) (76,910 ) assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) interpretation no. 46 ( fin 46 ) (35,217 ) (19,224 ) lesser of securities borrowed or securities loaned (64,375 ) (43,229 ) segregated customer cash and securities balances (20,705 ) (30,217 ) goodwill (1,514 ) (1,449 ) adjusted assets $ 402,827 $ 358,470 shareholders equity $ 24,867 $ 21,885 preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption 2,810 1,210 subtotal 27,677 23,095 less: goodwill (1,514 ) (1,449 ) tangible shareholders equity $ 26,163 $ 21,646 leverage ratio(1) 23.0 x 24.5 x adjusted leverage ratio(2) 15.4 x 16.6 x book value per share(3) $ 22.93 $ 20.24 (1) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (2) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (3) book value per share equals shareholders equity divided by common shares outstanding of 1,085 million at november 30, 2003 and 1,081 million at november 30, 2002. 48 table of contents equity capital management policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity base adequately reflects and provides some protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company securities inventories, underwritings, principal investments, private equity activities, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, and investments in fixed assets, including aircraft assets. the company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. at november 30, 2003, the company equity capital (which includes shareholders equity and preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption) was $27.7 billion, an increase of $4.6 billion from november 30, 2002. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. the board of directors has authorized the company to purchase, subject to market conditions and certain other factors, shares of common stock for capital management purposes. the unused portion of this authorization at january 31, 2004 was approximately $600 million. the company also has an ongoing repurchase authorization in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. in december 2003, the board of directors increased the quarterly dividend per common share by 9% to $0.25. liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company funding and liquidity activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. given the highly liquid nature of the company balance sheet, day-to-day funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of collateralized financing. in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand an unforeseen contraction in credit availability, the company has designed a liquidity management framework. this framework is intended to ensure that the company maintains sufficient liquidity to continue to fund its ongoing business and to meet all of its financial obligations maturing within a one-year period without issuing any new unsecured debt. liquidity management framework: designed to: cash capital policy ensure that the company can fund its balance sheet while repaying its financial obligations maturing within one year without issuing new unsecured debt. the company attempts to achieve this by maintaining sufficient cash capital (long-term debt and equity capital) to finance illiquid assets and the portion of its securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment. liquidity reserve maintain, at all times, a liquidity reserve in the form of immediately available cash and cash equivalents to cover volatility in day-to-day funding needs. the reserve is periodically assessed and determined based on funding volatility and liquidity targets and averaged approximately $20 billion during fiscal 2003. contingency planning maintain the company contingency funding plan to ascertain the company ability to manage a prolonged liquidity contraction and provide a course of action over a one-year time period to ensure orderly functioning of the company businesses. the company contingency funding plan sets forth the process and the internal and external communication flows necessary to ensure effective management of the contingency event. the company also pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by products and markets) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities (described below) to support its ongoing borrowing programs. the level of the company borrowings is continually adjusted to maintain the target cash liquidity reserve after meeting the company daily funding requirements. the company funding requirements will vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors. 49 table of contents funding management policies. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, euro, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposits issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposits. unsecured debt and borrowings. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the company credit services business) are used to finance the company consumer loan portfolio. consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. the company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). the company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its cash capital policy. in addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the company liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. during fiscal 2003, the company long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improved balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. as a result, for fiscal 2003, approximately $20 billion of unsecured debt was issued (excluding certain equity and credit-linked products not considered to be a component of the company cash capital) with over 70% of these transactions having a maturity of five years or longer. financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, while a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $12 billion and a corresponding $15 billion reduction in the level of short-term commercial paper outstanding at fiscal year-end. the company total capital base primarily consists of equity capital combined with long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) and preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption. at november 30, 2003, total capital was $83 billion, an increase of $17 billion from november 30, 2002. the company maintains borrowing relationships with a broad range of banks, financial institutions, counterparties and others from which it draws funds in a variety of currencies. the company values committed credit as a significant component of its liquidity policy. committed credit facilities. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of two separate tranches: a u.s. dollar tranche with the company as borrower and a japanese yen tranche with morgan stanley japan limited ( msjl ) as borrower and the company as guarantor. under this combined facility (the ms-msjl facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $5.5 billion under the u.s. dollar tranche and 70 billion japanese yen under the japanese yen tranche. at november 30, 2003, the company had a $10.6 billion surplus shareholders equity as compared with the ms-msjl facility covenant requirement. the company maintains a master collateral facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co. ), one of the company u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial accommodations (the ms&amp;co. facility ). as part of the ms&amp;co. facility, ms&amp;co. also maintains a secured committed 50 table of contents credit agreement with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.8 billion. at november 30, 2003, ms&amp;co. had a $2.5 billion surplus consolidated stockholder equity and a $1.6 billion surplus net capital, each as defined in the ms&amp;co. facility and as compared with the ms&amp;co. facility covenant requirements. the company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. international limited ( msil ), the company london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, to obtain committed funding from a syndicate of banks (the msil facility ) by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements for a secured repo facility and a company guarantee for an unsecured facility. the syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion, available in six major currencies. at november 30, 2003, msil had a $1.2 billion surplus shareholder equity and a $1.9 billion surplus financial resources, each as defined in the msil facility and as compared with the msil facility covenant requirements. the company anticipates that it may utilize the ms-msjl facility, the ms&amp;co. facility or the msil facility (the credit facilities ) for short-term funding from time to time (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in any of its credit facilities will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facilities, to pay its current level of dividends, or to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2003, no borrowings were outstanding under any of the credit facilities. the company and its subsidiaries also maintain a series of committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. these facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. the committed credit facilities demonstrate the diversity of lenders to the company covering geographic regions including north america, europe and asia pacific. credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or otherwise affect the ability of the company to raise short-term and long-term financing include its: level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, global and product diversification, risk management policies, cash liquidity and capital structure. in addition, the agencies that rate the company debt have focused on changes in the market that may require financial services firms to assume more credit risk in connection with their corporate lending activities and recent legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured financings. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either standard &amp; poor or moody investors service. at november 30, 2003, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $945 million. as of january 31, 2004, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings f1+ aa- moody investors service p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc. a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor a-1 a+ fiscal 2003 activity. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2003, the company issued senior notes aggregating $22.0 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $6.9 billion. the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2003, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company public debt shelf registration statements) was approximately $94.9 billion (including senior indebtedness consisting of guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). subsequent to fiscal year-end and through january 31, 2004, the company long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $8.4 billion. 51 table of contents during fiscal 2003, the company purchased approximately $350 million of its common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $39.12. during fiscal 2003, morgan stanley capital trust iii, a consolidated delaware statutory trust (the capital trust iii ), all of the common securities of which are owned by the company, issued $880 million of 6.25% capital securities (the capital securities iii ) that are guaranteed by the company. the capital trust iii issued the capital securities iii and invested the proceeds in 6.25% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the company, which are due march 1, 2033. during fiscal 2003, morgan stanley capital trust iv, a consolidated delaware statutory trust (the capital trust iv ), all of the common securities of which are owned by the company, issued $620 million of 6.25% capital securities (the capital securities iv ) that are guaranteed by the company. the capital trust iv issued the capital securities iv and invested the proceeds in 6.25% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the company, which are due april 1, 2033. during fiscal 2003, morgan stanley capital trust v, a consolidated delaware statutory trust (the capital trust v ), all of the common securities of which are owned by the company, issued $500 million of 5.75% capital securities (the capital securities v ) that are guaranteed by the company. the capital trust v issued the capital securities v and invested the proceeds in 5.75% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the company, which are due july 15, 2033. during fiscal 2003, the company redeemed all $400 million of its 7.10% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by msdw capital trust i. the company also simultaneously redeemed all of the outstanding 7.10% capital securities of msdw capital trust i at a redemption price of $25 per share. off-balance sheet arrangements. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities and credit services businesses. institutional securities activities . the company utilizes special purpose entities ( spes ) primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, municipal bonds, and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the company institutional securities business were approximately $2.4 billion at november 30, 2003, the majority of which were related to u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligation, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. for further information about the company institutional securities securitization activities, see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information about variable interest entities, the company arrangements with these entities and its adoption of fin 46. the company has entered into liquidity facilities with spes and other counterparties whereby the company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. the company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the spes in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). credit services activities. the asset securitization market is a significant source of funding for the company credit services business. by utilizing this market, the company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the company other funding sources, including unsecured debt. the securitization transaction structures utilized for the credit services business are accounted for as sales; i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with u.s. gaap (see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in connection with its credit card securitization program, the company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to the trusts, which issue asset-backed securities that are registered with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ), are used to support the issuance of publicly listed notes or are privately placed. this structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions, potentially resulting in the need for the company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. the primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ( economic early amortization ). 52 table of contents economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trusts credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. in the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trusts from the company would instead continue to be recognized on the company consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trusts would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. these recognized receivables would require the company to obtain alternative funding. although the company believes that the combination of factors that would result in an economic early amortization event is remote, the company also believes its access to alternative funding sources would mitigate this potential liquidity risk. a group of banks are committed to provide up to $1.3 billion under a credit facility that supports the short-term extendible asset-backed certificate program issued by the discover card master trust i. contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. in connection with its operating activities, the company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations pursuant to its long-term debt and operating leases as of november 30, 2003 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2004 fiscal 2005-2006 fiscal 2007-2008 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 10,574 $ 21,802 $ 9,636 $ 23,588 $ 65,600 operating leases(2) 490 926 684 2,502 4,602 total $ 11,064 $ 22,728 $ 10,320 $ 26,090 $ 70,202 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, private equity and other principal investment activities, and lending and financing commitments as of november 30, 2003 are summarized below by period of expiration. since commitments associated with letters of credit and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: fiscal 2004 fiscal 2005-2006 fiscal 2007-2008 thereafter total (dollars in millions) letters of credit(1)(2) $ 7,703 $ $ $ $ 7,703 private equity and other principal investments(1)(3) 242 112 8 105 467 investment grade lending commitments(1)(4)(6) 8,161 2,229 3,729 125 14,244 non-investment grade lending commitments(1)(4)(6) 317 462 432 658 1,869 commitments for secured lending transactions(1)(5) 6,465 3,175 185 9,825 total $ 22,888 $ 5,978 $ 4,169 $ 1,073 $ 34,108 (1) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) this amount represents the company outstanding letters of credit, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral requirements. (3) this amount represents the company commitments in connection with its private equity and other principal investment activities. (4) the company investment grade and non-investment grade lending commitments are made in connection with its corporate lending activities. see less liquid assets lending activities herein. (5) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. (6) credit ratings are determined by the company credit department, using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. the table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $263 billion. such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. these commitments, substantially all of which the company can terminate at any time 53 table of contents and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. at november 30, 2003, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $45 billion and $30 billion, respectively. less liquid assets. at november 30, 2003, certain assets of the company, such as real property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $2.4 billion, aircraft assets of $4.4 billion and goodwill of $1.5 billion, were illiquid. certain equity investments made in connection with the company private equity and other principal investment activities, certain high-yield debt securities, certain collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan products, bridge financings, and certain senior secured loans and positions also are not highly liquid. at november 30, 2003, the company had aggregate principal investments associated with its private equity and other principal investment activities (including direct investments and partnership interests) with a carrying value of approximately $850 million, of which approximately $300 million represented the company investments in its real estate funds. high-yield instruments. in connection with the company fixed income securities activities, the company underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets in non-investment grade instruments ( high-yield instruments ). for purposes of this discussion, high-yield instruments are defined as fixed income, emerging market, preferred equity securities and distressed debt rated bb+ or lower (or equivalent ratings by recognized credit rating agencies) as well as non-rated securities which, in the opinion of the company, contain credit risks associated with non-investment grade instruments. for purposes of this discussion, positions associated with the company credit derivatives business are not included because reporting gross market value exposures would not accurately reflect the risks associated with these positions due to the manner in which they are risk-managed. high-yield instruments generally involve greater risk than investment grade securities due to the lower credit ratings of the issuers, which typically have relatively high levels of indebtedness and, therefore, are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. in addition, the market for high-yield instruments can be characterized by periods of volatility and illiquidity. the company monitors total inventory positions and risk concentrations for high-yield instruments in a manner consistent with the company market risk management policies and control structure. the company manages its aggregate and single-issuer net exposure through the use of derivatives and other financial instruments. the company records high-yield instruments at fair value. unrealized gains and losses are recognized currently in the company consolidated statements of income. at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, the company had high-yield instruments owned with a market value of approximately $3.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, and had high-yield instruments sold, not yet purchased with a market value of $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. lending activities. in connection with certain of its business activities, the company provides to corporate clients, on a selective basis, through subsidiaries (including morgan stanley bank), loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, the aggregate value of loans and positions and lending commitments (see the table on page 65) outstanding was $17.8 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. in connection with these business activities (including the loans and positions and the lending commitments), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $5.5 billion at november 30, 2003 and $4.4 billion at november 30, 2002. at january 31, 2004, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $2.3 billion and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $1.4 billion. at january 31, 2004, the aggregate value of investment grade lending commitments was $16.0 billion and the aggregate value of non-investment grade lending commitments was $4.9 billion. requests to provide loans or lending commitments in connection with investment banking activities will continue in the future. new office facility. in fiscal 2002, the company purchased an office facility in westchester county, new york and incurred costs of approximately $55 million, including the purchase price. during fiscal 2003, the company incurred additional costs of approximately $120 million. the company expects to incur additional project costs of approximately $135 million in fiscal 2004. the company intends to complete the project and occupy the building in fiscal 2004. 54 table of contents regulatory capital requirements. ms&amp;co. and morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the new york stock exchange and the commodity futures trading commission. msil, a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and msjl, a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. ms&amp;co., msdwi, msil and msjl have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the federal deposit insurance corporation (the fdic ) and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2003, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. in fiscal 2002, the fdic, in conjunction with other bank regulatory agencies, issued guidance requiring fdic-insured financial institutions to treat accrued interest receivable related to credit card securitizations as a subordinated retained interest, which required holding higher regulatory capital beginning december 31, 2002. the company fdic-insured financial institutions have maintained capital ratios in excess of the regulatory minimums since implementing this revised guidance. certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc., the company triple-a rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. because the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, they are not significantly affected by inflation. however, inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. new accounting developments. variable interest entities. in january 2003, the fasb issued fin 46, which clarifies the application of accounting research bulletin no. 51, consolidated financial statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties ( variable interest entities ). variable interest entities ( vie ) are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if they do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. under fin 46, the primary beneficiary of a vie is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests. fin 46 also requires new disclosures about vies (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). the company is involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be vies and may hold interests therein, including interest-only strip investments and derivative instruments, that may be considered variable interests. transactions associated with these entities include asset and mortgage-backed securitizations and structured financings (including collateralized 55 table of contents debt, bond or loan obligations and credit-linked notes). the company engages in these transactions principally to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company currently consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest in accordance with u.s. gaap. for those entities deemed to be qualifying special purpose entities (as defined in sfas no. 140), which includes the credit card asset securitization master trusts (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements), the company does not consolidate the entity. on february 1, 2003, the company adopted fin 46 for vies created after january 31, 2003 and for vies in which the company obtains an interest after january 31, 2003. in october 2003, the fasb deferred the effective date of fin 46 for arrangements with vies existing prior to february 1, 2003 to fiscal periods ending after december 15, 2003. in december 2003, the fasb issued a revision of fin 46 ( fin 46r ) to address certain technical corrections and implementation issues that have arisen. the company anticipates adopting fin 46r as of february 29, 2004 for vies in which it holds a variable interest that it had acquired before february 1, 2003 in addition to those vies for which the company has previously applied fin 46. the company will apply fin 46r for all variable interests obtained after february 29, 2004. for these variable interests, the company will consolidate those vies (including financial asset-backed securitization, credit-linked note, structured note, municipal bond trust, equity-linked note and exchangeable trust entities) in which the company is the primary beneficiary. this accounting change is not expected to have a material effect on the company consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. in limited instances, the company may deconsolidate vies for which it is not the primary beneficiary as a result of the adoption of fin 46r. this is further discussed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements with respect to the statutory trusts associated with the issuance of preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption. gains and losses from extinguishment of debt. in april 2002, the fasb issued sfas no. 145, rescission of fasb statements no. 4, 44 and 64, amendment of fasb statement no. 13, and technical corrections. under sfas no. 145, gains and losses from extinguishment of debt are to be presented as part of an entity recurring operations unless they meet the specific criteria of apb opinion no. 30 for classification as an extraordinary item. as a result, the company has reclassified an extraordinary loss from the early extinguishment of certain long-term borrowings of $30 million, net of income taxes, previously reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 to income from operations. the pre-tax loss ($50 million) was recorded in other expenses, and the related tax benefit ($20 million) was recorded in provision for income taxes. pensions and other postretirement benefits. in december 2003, the fasb made certain revisions to sfas no. 132, employers disclosures about pensions and other postretirement benefits. the revised statement requires additional disclosures about employers pension and other postretirement plans while also retaining the disclosures originally required by sfas no. 132. the new required disclosures include information describing the types of plan assets, investment strategy, measurement dates, plan obligations and cash flows. in addition, the revised statement requires certain disclosures during interim periods. the revised statement is generally effective for fiscal years ending after december 15, 2003. however, the company has included the disclosures required by the revised statement in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. derivative financial instruments. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the company adopted the provisions of emerging issues task force ( eitf ) issue no. 02-3, issues involved in accounting for derivative contracts held for trading purposes and contracts involved in energy trading and risk management activities. under the provisions of eitf issue no. 02-3, in the absence of observable market prices or parameters in an active market, observable prices or parameters of other comparable current market transactions, or other observable data supporting a fair value based on a pricing model at the inception of a contract, profit recognition at the inception of an otc derivative financial instrument is not permitted. stock-based compensation. effective december 1, 2002, the company adopted sfas no. 123, as amended by sfas no. 148, using the prospective adoption method. the company now records compensation expense based upon the fair value of stock-based awards (both deferred stock and stock options). in prior years, the company accounted for its stock-based awards under the intrinsic value approach in accordance with apb 25 (see equity-based compensation program herein and notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements). 56 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the extent to which the company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and funding risk. funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. risk management at the company is a multi-faceted process with independent oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management policies, procedures and methodologies are evolutionary in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification. the management committee, composed of the company most senior officers, establishes the company overall risk management policies and reviews its performance relative to these policies. the management committee has authorized the securities risk committee to assist in monitoring and reviewing the risk management practices of the company institutional securities business. the securities risk committee has created subcommittees that report on specific risk management matters associated with the institutional securities business. in addition, the company other business areas have established committees to manage and monitor specific risks. these committees and subcommittees review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to the company market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technology risks. representation on these committees by senior management of both the business units and the relevant independent control functions helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the market risk, credit, controllers, treasury, and law departments (collectively, the control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the risk committees in monitoring and controlling the company risk profile. the market risk and credit departments have operational responsibility for measuring and monitoring aggregate market and credit risk, respectively, with respect to the company institutional trading activities and are responsible for risk policy development, risk analysis and risk reporting to senior management and the risk committees. in addition, the internal audit department, which reports to senior management and the company audit committee, periodically examines and evaluates the company operations and control environment. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities trading (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. 57 table of contents sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using value-at-risk ( var ) and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analysis conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management . during fiscal 2003, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging through the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analysis, which estimates the company revenue sensitivity to a series of specific predefined market and geopolitical events. reports summarizing material risk exposures are produced by the market risk department and are disseminated to senior management, including the management committee and the securities risk committee. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 99%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in every 100 trading days if the portfolio was held constant for one day. 58 table of contents the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analysis and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2003 . the table below presents the company var for each of the company primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var (e.g., certain credit default baskets), and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. aggregate var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to trading positions and (b) public-company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company. principal investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. as of november 30, 2003, the aggregate carrying value of such investments was approximately $460 million. since var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than once in 100 trading days. the table below presents var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2003 and november 30, 2002: trading and non-trading trading table 1: 99% aggregate var primary market risk category 99%/one-day var at november 30, 99%/one-day var at november 30, 2003 2002 2003 2002 (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 52 $ 41 $ 45 $ 45 equity price 32 14 30 14 foreign exchange rate 7 6 7 6 commodity price 22 22 22 22 subtotal 113 83 104 87 less diversification benefit(1) 50 35 46 34 aggregate var $ 63 $ 48 $ 58 $ 53 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregate var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated 99%/one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each such category. 59 table of contents the company aggregate trading and non-trading var at november 30, 2003 increased from the prior year, driven predominantly by increases in interest rate and credit spread and equity price var. the increase in year-end interest rate and credit spread var was primarily related to increased exposure to credit sensitive products, including investment grade corporate debt and high-credit-quality asset-backed products. the increase in year-end equity price var was primarily related to increased diversified exposures to liquid securities in global equity markets. for a more representative summary of var over the course of the fiscal year, please refer to average var in table 3 below. the table below represents 95% var on a one-day time horizon, which may be used to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms that report var at a 95% confidence interval: trading and non-trading trading table 2: 95% aggregate var primary market risk category 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, 2003 2002 2003 2002 (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 30 $ 26 $ 29 $ 28 equity price 22 10 21 10 foreign exchange rate 5 4 5 4 commodity price 15 15 15 15 subtotal 72 55 70 57 less diversification benefit 30 23 30 22 aggregate var $ 42 $ 32 $ 40 $ 35 in order to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms that report var with respect to a 10-business day holding period, the company one-day aggregate trading and non-trading var for a two-week time horizon at november 30, 2003 was $134 million at a 95% confidence interval and $200 million at a 99% confidence interval. the tables below present the high, low and average 99% and 95%/one-day aggregate trading var over the course of fiscal 2003 for substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from this measure (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions): table 3: 99% high/low/average trading var primary market risk category daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2003 high low average (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 54 $ 33 $ 43 equity price 50 14 25 foreign exchange rate 32 3 11 commodity price 42 21 27 aggregate trading var $ 73 $ 45 $ 55 table 4: 95% high/low/average trading var primary market risk category daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2003 high low average (dollars in millions, pre-tax) interest rate and credit spread $ 33 $ 20 $ 26 equity price 35 10 18 foreign exchange rate 20 2 7 commodity price 27 13 18 aggregate trading var $ 50 $ 32 $ 38 as shown in table 3 above, the company average 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for fiscal 2003 was $55 million. around this average, the company aggregate trading var varied from day to day. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for its trading activities and shows that for more than 90% of fiscal 2003 trading days, aggregate trading var ranged between $49 million and $65 million. the days where aggregate trading var exceeded $65 million occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and were primarily the result of a concentrated single-name equity exposure that was reduced prior to that quarter end. 60 table of contents one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenues is to compare the var with trading revenues. for a 99%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is three, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than five times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net revenues during fiscal 2003 for the company institutional trading businesses (including net interest and commissions and excluding primary revenue credited to the institutional trading businesses). there were no days during fiscal 2003 in which the company incurred daily trading losses (even when excluding primary revenues) in its institutional trading business in excess of the 99%/one-day aggregate trading var. additionally, there were no trading days in fiscal 2003 where the largest one-day loss exceeded the low 99%/one-day aggregate trading var (as reported in the high/low/average table). 61 table of contents consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management . in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations, long-term borrowings, deposits and federal funds. the company interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations . for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. a portion of the company credit card receivables has a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the prime, commercial paper or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2003, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $55 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2002 was estimated to be approximately $10 million. the increase in the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2003 was due to a higher level of variable rate financing, partially offset by a higher level of variable interest rate assets as compared with the prior-year period. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. 62 table of contents credit risk. institutional securities activities. credit risk is the risk of loss to the company arising from possible borrower or counterparty default on a contractual financial commitment. credit risk arising in connection with the company institutional securities activities is managed by the credit department and various business lines, within parameters set by the company senior management. credit risk management takes place at transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate credit risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. at the obligor level, the company makes use of: credit syndication, assignment and sale; netting agreements and collateral arrangements; and derivatives and other financial instruments. in addition, the credit department periodically reviews the financial soundness of obligors of the company. for portfolios of credit exposure, the company, as appropriate, assesses credit risk concentrations and purchases portfolio credit hedges. the company has credit guidelines that limit current and potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties by type of business activity. the credit department administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. the company incurs credit exposure as a dealer in otc derivatives activities. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2003. fair value is shown taking into account the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity netting(3) net exposure pre-collateral net exposure post-collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 632 $ 2,077 $ 1,675 $ 5,425 $ (2,566 ) $ 7,243 $ 3,621 aa 6,153 3,509 2,729 7,903 (5,609 ) 14,685 8,745 a 3,953 2,563 2,221 4,092 (2,496 ) 10,333 5,702 bbb 2,347 1,616 1,194 2,374 (1,147 ) 6,384 4,433 non-investment grade 1,125 521 298 597 (232 ) 2,309 1,366 unrated(4) 950 353 46 54 (11 ) 1,392 82 total $ 15,160 $ 10,639 $ 8,163 $ 20,445 $ (12,061 ) $ 42,346 $ 23,949 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties relating to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) credit ratings are determined by the company credit department, using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are net within such maturity category where appropriate. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the credit of unrated counterparties, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. in making this determination, the company takes into account various factors, including legal uncertainties and market volatility. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2003, including on a net basis, reflecting the fair value of related collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity netting(1) net exposure pre-collateral net exposure post-collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 3,962 $ 7,382 $ 6,998 $ 19,823 $ (11,080 ) $ 27,085 $ 12,193 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 5,554 442 101 12 (151 ) 5,958 5,384 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,375 737 329 185 (161 ) 2,465 964 commodity forwards, options and swaps 4,269 2,078 735 425 (669 ) 6,838 5,408 total $ 15,160 $ 10,639 $ 8,163 $ 20,445 $ (12,061 ) $ 42,346 $ 23,949 63 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased years to maturity cross - maturity netting(1) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 5,096 $ 7,142 $ 5,607 $ 12,139 $ (11,080 ) $ 18,904 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 5,226 381 85 16 (151 ) 5,557 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,007 1,148 434 367 (161 ) 2,795 commodity forwards, options and swaps 4,231 1,628 532 173 (669 ) 5,895 total $ 15,560 $ 10,299 $ 6,658 $ 12,695 $ (12,061 ) $ 33,151 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category where appropriate. each category of otc derivative products in the above table includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the fair values recorded in the above tables are determined by the company using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the company consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. as discussed under critical accounting policies, the structure of the transaction, including its maturity, is one of several important factors that may impact the price transparency. the impact of maturity on price transparency can differ significantly among product categories. for example, single currency and multi-currency interest rate derivative products involving highly standardized terms and the major currencies (e.g., the u.s. dollar or the euro) will generally have greater price transparency from published external sources even in maturity ranges beyond 20 years. credit derivatives with highly standardized terms and liquid underlying reference instruments can have price transparency from published external sources in a maturity ranging up to 10 years, while equity and foreign exchange derivative products with standardized terms in major currencies can have price transparency from published external sources within a two-year maturity range. commodity derivatives with standardized terms and delivery locations can have price transparency from published external sources within various maturity ranges up to 10 years, depending on the commodity. in most instances of limited price transparency based on published external sources, dealers in these markets, in their capacities as market-makers and liquidity providers, provide price transparency beyond the above maturity ranges. individual investor activities. with respect to the company individual investor group, credit risk committees, composed of senior managers from various departments, monitor credit risk and exposure that originates from retail customers. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. consumer lending activities. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit card holders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company criteria and historical data. each cardmember credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover business services merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants, with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume. operational risk. operational risk refers generally to the risk of loss resulting from the company operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the company operating systems, inadequacies or breaches in the company control processes and business interruptions. the company performs the functions required to operate its different businesses either by itself or through agreements with third parties. the company relies on the ability of its employees, its internal 64 table of contents systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process high numbers of transactions. these transactions may cross multiple markets and involve different currencies. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of the company or third-party systems or improper action by employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels. for example, the company securities businesses have procedures that require: that all transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the company books and records and are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations are subject to periodic independent review procedures; and that collateral and adequate documentation are obtained from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. with respect to its investment management activities, the company manages operational risk related to its various data processing systems through, among other things, internal controls such as reconciliations and various backup procedures. with respect to its consumer lending activities, the company manages operational risk through its system of internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. the company also uses periodic self-assessments and internal audit reviews as a further check on operational risk. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; data and applications recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis and training. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. through organizations promoting information security, such as the financial services information sharing analysis center and various other resources focused on information security, the company continues to enhance its ability to detect and defend against cyber threats. the company also utilizes the services of various external vendors who provide services in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the law division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the current legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 65 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. in the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include reviews of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the financial control and market risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the company recorded fair value for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these otc derivative products. for more information regarding the company risk management practices, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. transfers of financial assets. the company engages in securitization activities in connection with certain of its businesses. gains and losses from securitizations are recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the company relinquishes control of the transferred financial assets in accordance with sfas no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities a replacement of fasb statement no. 125, and other related pronouncements. the gain or loss on the sale of financial assets depends, in part, on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale. 63 table of contents in connection with its institutional securities business, the company engages in securitization transactions to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company recognizes any interests in the transferred assets and any liabilities incurred in securitization transactions in its consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. subsequently, changes in the fair value of such interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. in connection with its credit services business, the company periodically sells consumer loans through asset securitizations and continues to service these loans. the present value of the future net servicing revenues that the company estimates it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in income as the loans are securitized. a corresponding asset also is recorded and then amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized loans. the securitization gain or loss involves the company best estimates of key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward yield curves and appropriate discount rates. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different financial results. allowance for consumer loan losses. the allowance for consumer loan losses in the company credit services business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio that is evaluated quarterly for adequacy. in calculating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. the company regularly performs a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact future credit loss experience, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see credit services provision for consumer loan losses herein). aircraft under operating leases. the company aircraft portfolio consists of aircraft to be held and used and aircraft that are to be disposed of by sale ( held for sale ). aircraft under operating leases that are to be held and used are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges. depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the aircraft asset, which is generally 25 years from the date of manufacture. in accordance with sfas no. 144, the company aircraft that are to be held and used are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the aircraft may not be recoverable. under sfas no. 144, the carrying value of an aircraft may not be recoverable if its projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value. if an aircraft projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value, the company will recognize an impairment charge equal to the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the aircraft. the fair value of the company impaired aircraft is based upon the average market appraisal values obtained from independent appraisal companies. estimates of future cash flows associated with the aircraft assets as well as the appraisals of fair value are critical to the determination of whether an impairment exists and the amount of the impairment charge, if any (see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). aircraft under operating leases that fulfill the criteria to be classified as held for sale in accordance with sfas no. 144 are stated at the lower of carrying value (i.e., cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment 64 table of contents charges) or fair value less estimated cost to sell. depreciation expense is not recorded for aircraft that are classified as held for sale. the company will recognize a charge for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair value less estimated cost to sell (see notes 18 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements). a gain would be recognized for any subsequent increase in fair value less cost to sell, but not in excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized (for a write-down to fair value less cost to sell). certain factors affecting results of operations. the company results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. in addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there has been a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. such factors also may have an impact on the company ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. the company institutional securities business, particularly its involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, including derivatives, is subject to substantial positive and negative fluctuations due to a variety of factors that the company cannot control or predict with great certainty, including variations in the fair value of securities and other financial products and the volatility and liquidity of global trading markets. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number, and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from the company principal investments. such factors also affect the level of individual investor participation in the financial markets, which impacts the results of the individual investor group. the level of global market activity also could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and supervision and the way in which such capital is allocated among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could cause fluctuations to occur in the company investment management business. in the company credit services business, changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of credit services. the company results of operations also may be materially affected by competitive factors. included among the principal competitive factors affecting the institutional securities and individual investor group businesses are the company reputation, the quality of its personnel, its products, services and advice, capital commitments, relative pricing and innovation. competition in the company investment management business is affected by a number of factors, including the company reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, relative performance of investment products, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, distribution channels, and types and quality of services offered. in the credit services business, competition centers on merchant acceptance of credit and debit cards, account acquisition and customer utilization of credit and debit cards, all of which are impacted by the types of fees, interest rates and other features offered. the company strives to increase market share in all of its businesses and evaluates the competitive position of its businesses by, among other things, monitoring various market share data. for example, in the institutional securities investment banking business, the company monitors its market share in key areas such as announced and completed worldwide mergers and acquisitions, worldwide equity underwritings and worldwide debt underwritings. in the institutional securities sales and trading business, the company monitors its market share via independent client surveys as well as its market share of global exchange and non-exchange volumes. in the individual investor group business, the company monitors its market share of client assets and the number of representatives. in the 65 table of contents investment management business, the company monitors its market share of assets under management or supervision and mutual fund flows among mutual fund managers. it also monitors the relative performance of its funds as determined by organizations such as morningstar and lipper. in the credit services business, the company monitors its ranking in the number of merchant and cash access locations, the level of general purpose credit card loan balances outstanding, transaction volume and the credit quality of its loan portfolio. the company competes with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. the company competes with some of its competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis. certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services industries have been acquired by or merged into other firms. such convergence could result in the company competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. it is possible that competition may become even more intense as the company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence in certain areas. in addition, the company has experienced competition for qualified employees. the company ability to sustain or improve its competitive position will substantially depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation costs. as a result of the above economic and competitive factors, net income and revenues in any particular period may not be representative of full-year results and may vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to quarter. the company intends to manage its business for the long term and to mitigate the potential effects of market downturns by strengthening its competitive position in the global financial services industry through diversification of its revenue sources, enhancement of its global franchise, and management of costs and its capital structure. the company overall financial results will continue to be affected by its ability and success in addressing client goals; maintaining high levels of profitable business activities; emphasizing fee-based products that are designed to generate a continuing stream of revenues; evaluating product pricing; managing risks, costs and its capital position; and maintaining its strong reputation and franchise. in addition, the complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management and other infrastructure challenges that will require effective resource allocation in order for the company to remain competitive. 66 table of contents liquidity and capital resources. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company. through various risk and control committees, the company senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. these committees, along with the company treasury department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the company business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the company liquidity and capital policies. for a description of the company other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. the company liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse franchise or business impact. the key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the company business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. the principal elements of the company liquidity framework are the cash capital policy, the liquidity reserve and stress testing through the contingency funding plan. comprehensive financing guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities, committed credit facilities) support the company target liquidity profile. the balance sheet. the company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. given the nature of the company market making and customer financing activities, the overall size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. the company total assets increased to $775.4 billion at november 30, 2004 from $602.8 billion at november 30, 2003. the increase was primarily due to increases in securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to resell, financial instruments owned (largely driven by derivative contracts), receivables from customers and cash and securities segregated under federal and other regulations. the increase in securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to resell and receivables from customers was largely due to growth in the company equity financing related activities. the increase in derivative contracts was associated with interest rate, currency, equity and commodity derivative products due to increased customer flow and market activity. cash and securities segregated under federal and other regulations increased due to increased levels of customer activity. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. the company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. these low-risk assets generally are attributable to the company matched book and securities lending businesses. adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fasb interpretation no. 46, consolidation of variable interest entities ( fin 46 ), as revised. the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). in addition, the company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. these 67 table of contents characteristics include the long dated nature (final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the company option by a further 19 years), the company ability to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. the company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities. the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2004: balance at average month-end balance november 30, 2004 november 30, 2003 fiscal 2004 (dollars in millions, except ratio data) total assets $ 775,410 $ 602,843 $ 713,992 less: securities purchased under agreements to resell (123,041 ) (78,205 ) (98,485 ) securities borrowed (208,349 ) (153,813 ) (191,767 ) add: financial instruments sold, not yet purchased 123,595 111,448 128,681 less: derivative contracts sold, not yet purchased (55,820 ) (36,242 ) (43,433 ) subtotal 511,795 446,031 508,988 less: segregated customer cash and securities balances (26,534 ) (20,705 ) (25,596 ) assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fin 46, as revised (44,895 ) (35,217 ) (39,728 ) goodwill and intangible assets (2,199 ) (1,523 ) (1,761 ) adjusted assets $ 438,167 $ 388,586 $ 441,903 shareholders equity $ 28,206 $ 24,867 $ 26,718 junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts 2,897 2,810 2,877 subtotal 31,103 27,677 29,595 less: goodwill and intangible assets (2,199 ) (1,523 ) (1,761 ) tangible shareholders equity $ 28,904 $ 26,154 $ 27,834 leverage ratio(1) 26.8 x 23.0 x 25.7 x adjusted leverage ratio(2) 15.2 x 14.9 x 15.9 x (1) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (2) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. the company total capital consists of equity capital combined with long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months), junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts, and capital units. at november 30, 2004, total capital was $110.8 billion, an increase of $28.0 billion from november 30, 2003. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2004, the company issued senior notes aggregating $38.2 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $8.3 billion. in connection with the note issuances, the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2004, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company public debt shelf registration statements) was approximately $121 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). the weighted average maturity of the company long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.2 years at november 30, 2004. subsequent to fiscal year-end and through february 4, 2005, the company long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $8.6 billion. equity capital management policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity base 68 table of contents adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company inventories, underwritings, principal investments, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, and investments in fixed assets, including aircraft assets. the company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. the company uses an economic capital model to determine the amount of equity capital needed to support the risk of the company business activities and to ensure that the company remains adequately capitalized. economic capital is defined as the amount of capital needed to run the business through the business cycle and satisfy the requirements of the market, regulators and rating agencies. the company assigns economic capital to each business unit based primarily on regulatory capital usage and potential stress losses across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. additional capital is assigned for goodwill, intangible assets, principal investment risk, and balance sheet usage as required to meet the company leverage ratio targets. the company framework for allocating economic capital is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns to facilitate resource allocation decisions. at november 30, 2004, the company equity capital (which includes shareholders equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $31.1 billion, an increase of $3.4 billion from november 30, 2003. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. the board of directors has authorized the company to purchase, subject to market conditions and certain other factors, shares of common stock for capital management purposes. there were no repurchases made under the capital management authorization during fiscal 2004. the unused portion of this authorization at january 31, 2005 was approximately $600 million. the company also has an ongoing repurchase authorization in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans. during fiscal 2004, the company purchased approximately $1,132 million of its common stock (approximately 23 million shares) through open market purchases at an average cost of $50.31 (see also market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities in part ii, item 5). the company currently anticipates that it will increase common stock repurchases pursuant to its equity anti-dilution program and expects that these repurchases will be between 35 million and 80 million shares for fiscal 2005. the actual amount of repurchases will be subject to market conditions and certain other factors. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. in december 2004, the board of directors increased the quarterly dividend per common share by 8% to $0.27. 69 table of contents liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company liquidity and funding activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. given the highly liquid nature of the company balance sheet, day-to-day funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of stable collateralized financing. the company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the treasury department. in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand an unforeseen contraction in credit availability, the company has designed a liquidity management framework. liquidity management framework: designed to: contingency funding plan ascertain the company ability to manage a prolonged liquidity contraction and provide a course of action over a one-year time period to ensure orderly functioning of the businesses. the contingency funding plan sets forth the process and the internal and external communication flows necessary to ensure effective management of the contingency event. analytical processes exist to periodically evaluate and report the liquidity risk exposures of the organization under management-defined scenarios. cash capital ensure that the company can fund its balance sheet while repaying its financial obligations maturing within one year without issuing new unsecured debt. the company attempts to achieve this by maintaining sufficient cash capital (long-term debt and equity capital) to finance illiquid assets and the portion of its securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment. liquidity reserve maintain, at all times, a liquidity reserve composed of immediately available cash and cash equivalents and a pool of unencumbered securities that can be sold or pledged to provide same-day liquidity to the company. the reserve is periodically assessed and determined based on day-to-day funding requirements and strategic liquidity targets. the liquidity reserve averaged approximately $28 billion during fiscal 2004. contingency funding plan. the company contingency funding plan ( cfp ) model incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance, and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks. the company cfp is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. the cfp assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. in addition, the cfp assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities. bank subsidiaries that operate in a deposit-protected environment are not expected to be impacted by a company-specific credit event and are expected to continue to provide reliable funding for assets held in these entities. these entities include discover bank, which primarily funds credit card receivables, and morgan stanley bank, which funds senior loans and certain mortgage assets. discover bank also accesses the asset-backed financing market for a significant portion of its funding requirements. 70 table of contents cash capital. the company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. sources of cash capital include the parent company equity and the non-current portion of certain long-term borrowings. uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, aircraft, equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment; i.e., stressed haircuts; and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments. the company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. the company equity capital of $31.1 billion (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts), long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $79.6 billion and capital units of $66 million comprised the company total capital of $110.8 billion as of november 30, 2004, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements. liquidity reserve. the company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve which is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets, including coverage of a significant portion of expected cash outflows over a short-term horizon in a potential liquidity crisis. prior to fiscal 2004, this liquidity reserve was held in the form of cash deposited with banks. beginning in late fiscal 2004, this liquidity reserve was increased and separated into a cash component and a pool of unencumbered securities. the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, is managed on a global basis, and securities for the pool are chosen accordingly. the u.s.-held component consists largely of u.s. government bonds and at november 30, 2004 totaled $10.0 billion. the non-u.s. component consists of european government bonds and other high-quality collateral. the company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. the company funding requirements and target liquidity reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors. committed credit facilities. the maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the company funding sources. the company values committed credit as a secondary component of its liquidity management framework. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of two separate tranches: a u.s. dollar tranche with the company as borrower and a japanese yen tranche with morgan stanley japan limited ( msjl ) as borrower and the company as guarantor. under this combined facility (the ms-msjl facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $5.5 billion under the u.s. dollar tranche and 70 billion japanese yen under the japanese yen tranche. at november 30, 2004, the company had a $12.0 billion surplus shareholders equity as compared with the ms-msjl facility covenant requirement. the company maintains a master collateral facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co. ), one of the company u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial accommodations (the ms&amp;co. facility ). as part of the ms&amp;co. facility, ms&amp;co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.8 billion. at november 30, 2004, ms&amp;co. had a $2.8 billion surplus consolidated stockholder equity and a $0.9 billion surplus net capital, each as defined in the ms&amp;co. facility and as compared with the ms&amp;co. facility covenant requirements. the company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. international limited ( msil ), the company london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, to obtain committed funding from a syndicate 71 table of contents of banks (the msil facility ) by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements for a secured repo facility and a company guarantee for an unsecured facility. the syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion, available in six major currencies. at november 30, 2004, msil had a $1.7 billion surplus shareholder equity and a $2.0 billion surplus financial resources, each as defined in the msil facility and as compared with the msil facility covenant requirements. the company anticipates that it may utilize the ms-msjl facility, the ms&amp;co. facility or the msil facility (the credit facilities ) for short-term funding from time to time (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in any of its credit facilities will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facilities, to pay its current level of dividends, or to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2004, no borrowings were outstanding under any of the credit facilities. the company and its subsidiaries also maintain a series of committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. these facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. the committed credit facilities demonstrate the diversity of lenders to the company covering geographic regions, including north america, europe and asia. on a yearly basis, the company committed credit strategy is reviewed and approved by its senior management. this strategy takes the company total liquidity sources into consideration when determining the appropriate size and mix of committed credit. the company, through one of its subsidiaries, maintains several funded committed credit facilities to support the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan business. lenders to these facilities provided an aggregate of $10.7 billion in financing at november 30, 2004. funding management policies. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, euro, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. the company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the u.s., european and asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the u.s. dollar, euro, british pound, australian dollar and japanese yen. the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposits issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposits. the company funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the company operations that would result from an interruption in the availability of the company funding sources. the company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its 72 table of contents outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs. secured financing. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowing, while the securitization market allows for the securitization of the credit card receivables arising from the company credit services business. the company goal is to maximize funding through less credit sensitive collateralized borrowings and asset securitizations in order to reduce reliance on unsecured financing. the institutional securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. as part of this effort, the institutional securities business continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity. similarly, credit services, through its use of the securitization market, reduces the need for other unsecured parent company financing. unsecured financing. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the company credit services business) are used to finance the company consumer loan portfolio. consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. the company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). the company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its cash capital policy. in addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the company liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. the company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. this approach gives the company flexibility to manage the unsecured debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors, and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that inter-company borrowings mature before those of the parent company. liquidity and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the company ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company. during fiscal 2004, the company long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improved balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. as a result, for fiscal 2004, $38.2 billion of unsecured debt was issued (excluding certain equity and credit-linked products not considered to be a component of the company cash capital). financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $24 billion. 73 table of contents credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or otherwise affect the ability of the company to raise short-term and long-term financing include its: level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured funding. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either moody investors service or standard &amp; poor s. at november 30, 2004, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $860 million. of this amount, $367 million (approximately 43%) relates to bilateral arrangements between the company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. these bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded. as of january 31, 2005, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings f1+ aa- moody investors service p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc. a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor s(1) a-1 a+ (1) on september 29, 2004, standard &amp; poor placed the company senior debt ratings on positive outlook. off-balance sheet arrangements. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities and credit services businesses. institutional securities activities . the company utilizes special purpose entities ( spe ) primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the company institutional securities business were approximately $3.9 billion at november 30, 2004, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligation and commercial mortgage loan securitization transactions. for further information about the company institutional securities securitization activities, see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial 74 table of contents statements. in addition, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information about variable interest entities, the company arrangements with these entities and its adoption of fin 46, as revised. the company has entered into liquidity facilities with spes and other counterparties, whereby the company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. the company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the spes in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). credit services activities. the asset securitization market is a significant source of funding for the company credit services business. by utilizing this market, the company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the company other funding sources, including unsecured debt. the securitization transaction structures utilized for the credit services business are accounted for as sales; i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with u.s. gaap (see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in connection with its credit card securitization program, the company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to the trusts, which issue asset-backed securities that are registered with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ), are used to support the issuance of publicly listed notes or are privately placed. this structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions, potentially resulting in the need for the company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. the primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ( economic early amortization ). economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trusts credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. in the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trusts from the company would instead continue to be recognized on the company consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trusts would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. these recognized receivables would require the company to obtain alternative funding. although the company believes that the combination of factors that would result in an economic early amortization event is remote, the company also believes its access to alternative funding sources would mitigate this potential liquidity risk. a group of banks is committed to provide up to $1.3 billion under a credit facility that supports the short-term extendible asset-backed certificate program issued by the discover card master trust i. such credit facility was renewed in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. guarantees. fasb interpretation no. 45 ( fin 45 ), guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect of indebtedness of others, requires the company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. fin 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or commodity price, an index or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. fin 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. 75 table of contents the table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at november 30, 2004: maximum potential payout/notional carrying amount collateral/ recourse years to maturity type of guarantee less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 total (dollars in millions) derivative contracts $ 473,598 $ 281,033 $ 294,873 $ 254,354 $ 1,303,858 $ 16,970 $ 120 standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees 337 196 95 27 655 7 161 market value guarantees 51 17 286 536 890 46 57 liquidity facilities 922 889 176 1,987 see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for information on indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees, merchant chargeback guarantees and other guarantees. contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. in connection with its operating activities, the company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments. in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations at november 30, 2004, include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of november 30, 2004 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2005 fiscal 2006-2007 fiscal 2008-2009 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 12,764 $ 33,283 $ 14,866 $ 34,373 $ 95,286 operating leases(2) 500 870 698 2,209 4,277 purchase obligations(3) 707 466 173 62 1,408 total $ 13,971 $ 34,619 $ 15,737 $ 36,644 $ 100,971 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, business acquisitions, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. purchase obligations at november 30, 2004 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. these amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the company consolidated balance sheet. the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, principal investments and private equity activities, and lending and financing commitments as of november 30, 2004 are summarized below by period of expiration. since commitments associated with letters of credit and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: fiscal 2005 fiscal 2006-2007 fiscal 2008-2009 thereafter total (dollars in millions) letters of credit(2) $ 8,433 $ 85 $ $ $ 8,518 principal investment and private equity activities 89 10 79 7 185 investment grade lending commitments(3)(5) 6,281 3,536 7,943 1,229 18,989 non-investment grade lending commitments(3)(5) 240 550 336 283 1,409 commitments for secured lending transactions(4) 7,273 673 136 176 8,258 commitments to purchase mortgage loans(6) 5,957 5,957 total(1) $ 28,273 $ 4,854 $ 8,494 $ 1,695 $ 43,316 76 table of contents (1) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) this amount represents the company outstanding letters of credit, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral requirements. (3) the company investment grade and non-investment grade lending commitments are made in connection with its corporate lending activities. see less liquid assets lending activities herein. (4) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. (5) credit ratings are determined by the company institutional credit department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. (6) this amount represents the company forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans. the table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $259 billion. such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. these commitments, substantially all of which the company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. at november 30, 2004, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $75 billion and $60 billion, respectively. less liquid assets. at november 30, 2004, certain assets of the company, such as real property, equipment and leasehold improvements of $2.6 billion, aircraft assets of $3.9 billion, and goodwill and intangible assets of $2.2 billion, were illiquid. certain equity investments made in connection with the company private equity and other principal investment activities, certain high-yield debt securities, certain collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan products, bridge financings, and certain senior secured loans and positions also are not highly liquid. at november 30, 2004, the company had aggregate principal investments associated with its private equity and other principal investment activities (including direct investments and partnership interests) with a carrying value of approximately $910 million, of which approximately $300 million represented the company investments in its real estate funds. high-yield instruments. in connection with the company fixed income securities activities, the company underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets in non-investment grade instruments ( high-yield instruments ). for purposes of this discussion, high-yield instruments are defined as fixed income, emerging market, preferred equity securities and distressed debt rated bb+ or lower (or equivalent ratings by recognized credit rating agencies) as well as non-rated securities which, in the opinion of the company, contain credit risks associated with non-investment grade instruments. for purposes of this discussion, positions associated with the company credit derivatives business are not included because reporting gross market value exposures would not accurately reflect the risks associated with these positions due to the manner in which they are risk-managed. high-yield instruments generally involve greater risk than investment grade securities due to the lower credit ratings of the issuers, which typically have relatively high levels of indebtedness and, therefore, are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions. in addition, the market for high-yield instruments can be characterized as having periods of higher volatility and reduced liquidity. the company monitors total inventory positions and risk concentrations for high-yield instruments in a manner consistent with the company market risk management policies and 77 table of contents control structure. the company manages its aggregate and single-issuer net exposure through the use of derivatives and other financial instruments. the company records high-yield instruments at fair value. unrealized gains and losses are recognized currently in the consolidated statements of income. the market value of the company high-yield instruments owned and high-yield instruments sold, not yet purchased are shown below: at november 30, 2004 at november 30, 2003 (dollars in billions) high-yield instruments owned $ 7.2 $ 3.7 high-yield instruments sold, not yet purchased 2.4 0.8 lending activities. in connection with certain of its institutional business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. for further information on these activities, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in part ii, item 7a. regulatory developments. in april 2004, the sec approved the cse rule that establishes a voluntary framework for comprehensive, group-wide risk management procedures and consolidated supervision of certain financial services holding companies by the sec. the framework is designed to minimize the duplicative regulatory requirements on u.s. securities firms resulting from the european union ( eu ) directive (2002/87/ec) concerning the supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates active in the eu. the cse rule also would allow ms&amp;co., one of the company u.s. broker-dealers, to use an alternative method, based on mathematical models, to calculate net capital charges for market and derivatives-related credit risk. under the cse rule, the sec will regulate the holding company and any unregulated affiliate of a registered broker-dealer, including subjecting the holding company to capital requirements generally consistent with the standards of the basel committee on banking supervision ( basel ii ). in december 2004, the company applied to the sec for permission to operate under the cse rule and expects to be approved in fiscal 2005. the company continues to work with its regulators to understand and assess the impact of the cse rule and basel ii capital standards. the company cannot fully predict the impact that these changes will have on its businesses; however, compliance with consolidated supervision and the imposition of revised capital standards are likely to impose additional costs and may affect capital raising and allocation decisions. regulatory capital requirements. ms&amp;co. and morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the new york stock exchange and the commodity futures trading commission. msil, a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and msjl, a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. ms&amp;co., msdwi, msil and msjl have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the federal deposit insurance corporation (the fdic ) and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of tier 1 capital, 78 table of contents as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2004, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc., the company triple-a rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, and, therefore, not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. new accounting developments. variable interest entities. in january 2003, the fasb issued fin 46, which clarified the application of accounting research bulletin no. 51, consolidated financial statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties ( variable interest entities ). variable interest entities ( vie ) are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if they do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. under fin 46, the primary beneficiary of a vie is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests. fin 46 also requires disclosures about vies (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). the company is involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be vies and may hold interests therein, including debt securities, interest-only strip investments and derivative instruments that may be considered variable interests. transactions associated with these entities include asset- and mortgage-backed securitizations and structured financings (including collateralized debt, bond or loan obligations and credit-linked notes). the company engages in these transactions principally to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. the company consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. for those entities deemed to be qualifying special purpose entities (as defined in sfas no. 140), which includes the credit card asset securitization master trusts (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements), the company does not consolidate the entity. 79 table of contents on february 1, 2003, the company adopted fin 46 for vies created after january 31, 2003 and for vies in which the company obtains an interest after january 31, 2003. in october 2003, the fasb deferred the effective date of fin 46 for arrangements with vies existing prior to february 1, 2003 to fiscal periods ending after december 15, 2003. in december 2003, the fasb issued a revision of fin 46 ( fin 46r ) to address certain technical corrections and implementation issues that have arisen. as of february 29, 2004, the company adopted fin 46 or fin 46r for all of its variable interests. for these variable interests, the company consolidated those vies (including financial asset-backed securitization, mortgage-backed securitization, collateral debt obligation, credit-linked note, structured note, municipal bond trust, equity-linked note and exchangeable trust entities) in which the company was the primary beneficiary. in limited instances, the company deconsolidated vies for which it was not the primary beneficiary as a result of the adoption of fin 46r. this is further discussed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements with respect to the statutory trusts that had issued preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption. as of may 31, 2004, the company adopted fin 46r for those variable interests that were previously accounted for under fin 46. the effect of adopting fin 46 and fin 46r as of february 29, 2004 and may 31, 2004 did not have a material effect on the company consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. american jobs creation act of 2004. in december 2004, the fasb issued staff position ( fsp ) no. 109-2, accounting and disclosure guidance for the foreign earnings repatriation provision within the american jobs creation act of 2004 . the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the act ), signed into law on october 22, 2004, provides for a special one-time tax deduction, or dividend received deduction ( drd ), of 85% of qualifying foreign earnings that are repatriated in either a company last tax year that began before the enactment date or the first tax year that begins during the one-year period beginning on the enactment date. fsp 109-2 provides entities additional time to assess the effect of repatriating foreign earnings under the act for purposes of applying sfas no. 109, accounting for income taxes, which typically requires the effect of a new tax law to be recorded in the period of enactment. the company will elect, if applicable, to apply the drd to qualifying dividends of foreign earnings repatriated in its fiscal year ending november 30, 2005. the company is awaiting further clarifying guidance from the u.s. treasury department on certain provisions of the act. once this guidance is received, the company expects to complete its evaluation of the effects of the act during fiscal 2005. under the limitations on the amount of dividends qualifying for the drd of the act, the maximum repatriation of the company foreign earnings that may qualify for the special one-time drd is approximately $4.0 billion. therefore, the range of possible amounts of qualifying dividends of foreign earnings is between zero and approximately $4.0 billion. because the evaluation is ongoing, it is not yet practical to estimate a range of possible income tax effects of potential repatriations. stock-based compensation. effective december 1, 2002, the company adopted sfas no. 123, as amended by sfas no. 148, using the prospective adoption method. the company currently records compensation expense based upon the fair value of stock-based awards (both deferred stock and stock options) in accordance with sfas no. 123. prior to fiscal 2003, the company accounted for its stock-based awards under the intrinsic value approach in accordance with apb 25 (see equity-based compensation program herein and notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements). in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123 (revised) ( sfas no. 123r ), share-based payment . sfas no. 123r eliminates the intrinsic value method under apb 25 as an alternative method of accounting for stock-based awards. sfas no. 123r also revises the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payment liabilities, forfeitures and modifications of stock-based awards and clarifies sfas no. 123 guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. in addition, sfas no. 123r amends sfas no. 95, statement of cash flows, to require that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid, which is included within operating cash flows. the company is required to adopt sfas no. 123r for the interim period beginning september 1, 2005 using a modified version of prospective application or may elect to apply a modified version of retrospective application. 80 table of contents the company currently expects to early adopt sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective method with an effective date of december 1, 2004. the company past practice for recognizing compensation expense for equity-based awards included the recognition of a portion of the award in the year of grant. based upon the terms of the company equity-based compensation program, the company will no longer be able to recognize a portion of the award in the grant year under sfas no. 123r. this will have the effect of reducing compensation expense in fiscal 2005. as a result, fiscal 2005 compensation expense will include the amortization of fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 awards but will not include any amortization for fiscal 2005 awards. if sfas no. 123r was not in effect, fiscal 2005 compensation expense would have included three years of amortization (i.e., for awards granted in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005). in addition, the fiscal 2005 awards, which will begin to be amortized in fiscal 2006, will be amortized over a shorter period (2 and 3 years) as compared with awards granted in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 (3 and 4 years). 81 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the extent to which the company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market, credit, operational, legal, and liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is protection of the company franchise and reputation. guardianship is based on three key principles: accountability, transparency and independent oversight. given the importance of effective risk management to the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the company and business segment level. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification. the nature of the company risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure includes the firm risk committee and the capital committee, the chief administrative and risk officer, the internal audit department, independent control groups and various risk control managers, committees and groups located within the business segments. the firm risk committee, composed of the company most senior officers, oversees the company risk management structure. the firm risk committee responsibilities include comprehensive oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits, and monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise risks. the firm risk committee is overseen by the audit committee of the board of directors (the audit committee ). the capital committee oversees alignment of the company resource allocation with strategic priorities. the capital committee responsibilities include: approving acquisitions and divestitures and making recommendations to the board of directors (when appropriate); directing capital to the business segments; approving technical capital recommendations; approving capital exceptions; and approving methodologies for capital allocation for the company and the business segments. the chief administrative and risk officer, a member of the firm risk committee, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves certain excessions of company risk limits; reviews material market, credit, and liquidity and funding risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the audit committee. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the audit committee and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department periodically examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. 82 table of contents the market risk, credit, financial control, treasury and law departments (collectively, the company control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the firm risk committee in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable: adheres to established limits for market, credit and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the firm risk committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures, and related controls. each of the company business segments also has designated risk managers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively, segment control groups and, together with the company control groups, the control groups ) to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. the control groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the segment market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review that is overseen by the business segment risk committees and ultimately by the firm risk committee. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than liquidity and funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business where the substantial majority of the company value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within the individual investor group and investment management businesses. the company also incurs non-trading related market risk principally through its consumer lending activities within the credit services business. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries 83 table of contents and maintains the company var system. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management . during fiscal 2004, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the company revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. 84 table of contents var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 99%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2004 . the table below presents the company var for each of the company primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var (e.g., certain credit default baskets), and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. aggregate trading and non-trading var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions and (b) public-company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company. principal investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. as of november 30, 2004, the aggregate carrying value of such investments was approximately $400 million. 85 table of contents since the var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than once in 100 trading days. the table below presents var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003: trading and non-trading trading table 1: 99% aggregate var 99%/one-day var at november 30, 99%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2004 2003 2004 2003 (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 71 $ 52 $ 53 $ 45 equity price 42 32 38 30 foreign exchange rate 10 7 10 7 commodity price 27 22 27 22 subtotal 150 113 128 104 less diversification benefit(1) 56 50 48 46 aggregate var $ 94 $ 63 $ 80 $ 58 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregate var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company aggregate trading and non-trading var, and aggregate trading var at november 30, 2004 were $94 million and $80 million, respectively. the company views average var over the fiscal year as more representative of trends in the business than var at any single point in time. table 2 below, which presents the high, low and average 99%/one-day aggregate trading var over the course of fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, represents substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate trading and non-trading var discussed above are excluded from these measures (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions). average aggregate trading var for fiscal 2004 increased to $73 million from $55 million in fiscal 2003, reflecting an increase in all primary risk categories except foreign exchange. the increase in interest rate and credit spread var was predominantly driven by increased exposures to credit-sensitive instruments (e.g., corporate debt securities) and to interest rate levels. the increase in equity price var was predominantly driven by increased directional exposure to global equity markets. the increase in commodity price var was predominantly driven by increased exposures to oil products. table 2: 99% high/low/average trading var daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2004 daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2003 primary market risk category high low average high low average (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 80 $ 39 $ 50 $ 54 $ 33 $ 43 equity price 48 24 34 50 14 25 foreign exchange rate 21 6 11 32 3 11 commodity price 49 22 33 42 21 27 aggregate trading var $ 97 $ 55 $ 73 $ 73 $ 45 $ 55 86 table of contents var statistics for comparisons with other global financial services firms var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because firms differ in the statistical assumptions they make when simulating changes in market factors as well as in the methods they use to approximate the portfolio revaluations under the simulations. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk-taking within a firm rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. table 3 below presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (99% vs. 95%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years vs. one year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations: table 3: average 99% and 95% trading var with four-year/one-year historical time series average 99%/one-day var average 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2004 for fiscal 2004 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 50 $ 57 $ 31 $ 36 equity price 34 31 24 22 foreign exchange rate 11 11 7 7 commodity price 33 25 21 16 aggregate trading var $ 73 $ 72 $ 50 $ 49 in addition, if the company were to report trading var (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the company 99% and 95% average aggregate trading var for fiscal 2004 would have been $232 million and $159 million, respectively. 87 table of contents distribution of var statistics and net revenues for 2004 as shown in table 2 above, the company average 99%/one-day aggregate trading var for fiscal 2004 was $73 million. around this average, the company aggregate trading var varied from day to day. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 99%/one-day aggregate trading var and illustrates that for more than 90% of fiscal 2004 trading days, aggregate trading var ranged between $60 million and $90 million. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 99%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is three, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than five times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net revenue during fiscal 2004 for the company trading businesses (including net interest and commissions but excluding primary and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). there were no days during fiscal 2004 in which the company incurred daily trading losses in its trading businesses in excess of the 99%/one-day aggregate trading var. 88 table of contents consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management . in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations, long-term borrowings, deposits and federal funds. the company interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations . for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. a portion of the company credit card receivables has a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into 89 table of contents consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the commercial paper or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2004, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $60 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2003 was estimated to be approximately $55 million. the increase in the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2004 was due to a higher level of variable rate financing, as fixed financings matured. the increase is partially offset by a higher level of variable interest rate assets as compared with the prior-year period. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor is unable to meet its financial obligations. the company is exposed to three distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. the company incurs significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business. this type of risk requires significant credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. the company incurs consumer portfolio credit risk in the credit services business primarily through cardholder receivables. credit risk in a pool of credit card receivables is generally highly diversified, without significant individual exposures, and, accordingly, is managed on a portfolio and not a single-name basis. the company incurs individual consumer credit risk in the individual investor group business through margin loans to individual investors and loans to small businesses, both of which are generally collateralized. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed separately. the institutional credit department ( institutional credit ) manages credit risk exposure for the institutional securities business. institutional credit is responsible for 90 table of contents ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure in the individual investor group business is managed through various credit risk departments and committees. the individual investor group risk management department is responsible for monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. credit risk exposure in the credit services business is managed through the credit services credit and market risk committee, which is, in turn, supported by business line specific risk committees and the credit risk management department, which is responsible for the development, validation and implementation of credit policy criteria, for predictive models and for monitoring performance for both new and existing products and overseeing adherence to existing policies and limits. institutional securities activities. lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. credit risk with respect to loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement. securitized products. the company also extends loans and lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value. other. in addition to the activities performed by institutional credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within institutional securities. for example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. certain risk management activities for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and warrants on equities typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale, and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities, or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. in order to help protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, institutional credit ensures that all material lending and derivative transactions are prudently analyzed prior to approval, that the creditworthiness of 91 table of contents the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly, and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. institutional credit assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers. these credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or below are considered non-investment grade. additionally, institutional credit assigns a facility rating to lending facilities. the facility rating incorporates the relative position of the particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects. the company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties by type of business activity. institutional credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign, or sub-participate lending commitments and funded loans to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements may provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure-lending. at november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $0.5 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003, the aggregate value of lending commitments outstanding was $20.4 billion and $16.1 billion, respectively. in connection with these business activities (which include funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $11.6 billion and $7.3 billion at november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003, respectively, including both internal and external hedges utilized by the lending business. the table below shows the company credit exposure from its lending positions and commitments as of november 30, 2004: lending commitments and funded loans years to maturity total lending exposure(2) funded loans credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 252 $ 45 $ 253 $ $ 550 $ 30 aa 1,743 269 930 277 3,219 a 3,271 1,066 3,959 185 8,481 153 bbb 1,308 2,724 3,084 813 7,929 1,007 non-investment grade 360 625 503 381 1,869 460 total $ 6,934 $ 4,729 $ 8,729 $ 1,656 $ 22,048 $ 1,650 notional amount of hedges owned $ 11,621 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total lending exposure includes both lending commitments and funded loans. 92 table of contents credit exposure-derivatives. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2004. fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements where applicable and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity netting(3) net exposure pre- collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 2,322 $ 2,539 $ 1,816 $ 6,635 $ (3,059 ) $ 10,253 $ 5,815 aa 7,861 4,390 3,664 11,828 (5,625 ) 22,118 13,594 a 3,641 3,927 2,199 5,240 (2,157 ) 12,850 8,007 bbb 3,315 2,939 1,716 5,741 (1,577 ) 12,134 6,909 non-investment grade 2,828 982 827 1,024 (494 ) 5,167 2,249 unrated(4) 1,243 405 111 100 (43 ) 1,816 165 total $ 21,210 $ 15,182 $ 10,333 $ 30,568 $ (12,955 ) $ 64,338 $ 36,739 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category where appropriate. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the creditworthiness of unrated companies, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. in making this determination, the company takes into account various factors, including legal uncertainties and market volatility. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2004, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity netting(1) net exposure pre- collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 5,136 $ 7,366 $ 8,424 $ 27,821 $ (10,676 ) $ 38,071 $ 18,934 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 8,809 698 128 5 (125 ) 9,515 7,824 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,610 917 533 1,236 (310 ) 3,986 956 commodity forwards, options and swaps 5,655 6,201 1,248 1,506 (1,844 ) 12,766 9,025 total $ 21,210 $ 15,182 $ 10,333 $ 30,568 $ (12,955 ) $ 64,338 $ 36,739 93 table of contents (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category where appropriate. otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased years to maturity cross-maturity netting(1) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 5,238 $ 7,560 $ 7,756 $ 18,171 $ (10,676 ) $ 28,049 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 8,804 457 85 25 (125 ) 9,246 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,255 1,172 664 332 (310 ) 3,113 commodity forwards, options and swaps 5,165 5,202 1,244 830 (1,844 ) 10,597 total $ 20,462 $ 14,391 $ 9,749 $ 19,358 $ (12,955 ) $ 51,005 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category where appropriate. the company derivatives (both listed and otc) at november 30, 2004 and november 30, 2003 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product: at november 30, 2004 at november 30, 2003 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 38,172 $ 28,100 $ 27,280 $ 18,950 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 9,521 9,249 5,964 5,561 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 6,587 7,549 4,503 5,781 commodity forwards, options and swaps 12,812 10,922 6,905 5,950 total $ 67,092 $ 55,820 $ 44,652 $ 36,242 each category of otc derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the fair values recorded in the above tables are determined by the company using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. as discussed under critical accounting policies, the structure of the transaction, including its maturity, is one of several important factors that may impact the price transparency. the impact of maturity on price transparency can differ significantly 94 table of contents among product categories. for example, single currency and multi-currency interest rate derivative products involving highly standardized terms and the major currencies (e.g., the u.s. dollar or the euro) will generally have greater price transparency from published external sources even in maturity ranges beyond 20 years. credit derivatives with highly standardized terms and liquid underlying reference instruments can have price transparency from published external sources in a maturity ranging up to 10 years, while equity and foreign exchange derivative products with standardized terms in major currencies can have price transparency from published external sources within a two-year maturity range. commodity derivatives with standardized terms and delivery locations can have price transparency from published external sources within various maturity ranges up to 10 years, depending on the commodity. in most instances of limited price transparency based on published external sources, dealers in these markets, in their capacities as market-makers and liquidity providers, provide price transparency beyond the above maturity ranges. country exposure. the company monitors its credit exposure and risk to individual countries. credit exposure to a country arises from the company lending activities and derivatives activities in a country. at november 30, 2004, less than 5% of the company total credit exposure (including loans, lending commitments and derivative contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 1% of the company total credit exposure. the company defines emerging markets to include all countries that are not members of the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), excluding the cayman islands and the channel islands, and those oecd countries rated below a by institutional credit. these country credit ratings are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. industry exposure. the company also monitors its credit exposure and risk to individual industries. at november 30, 2004, the company material credit exposure (including loans, lending commitments and derivative contracts) was to financial institutions, sovereign-related entities and the energy sector. individual investor activities. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of all margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. additionally, all transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. at november 30, 2004, there were approximately $6.8 billion of customer margin loans outstanding. in addition, the individual investor group is engaged in commercial lending to small businesses ( businesscape sm ) in the forms of revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgages. businesscape clients are required to submit a formal credit application, including the borrower financial statements. once the credit information is obtained, a comprehensive financial analysis is performed to determine proper structure, debt capacity, cash flow coverage to service debt, liquidity analysis and collateral analysis. in addition, financial reporting requirements and financial covenants are proposed and negotiated between the lender and the borrower. consumer lending activities. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit cardholders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company criteria and historical data. each cardmember credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company 95 table of contents also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover network merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants, with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume. with respect to first mortgages and home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a credit process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies, together with industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., fico scores). the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all loans pass a capacity, willingness and collateral value model that, in addition to a fico score, includes debt ratios, loan-to-collateral value ratios, and independent third-party appraisal/valuations and ownership reports. as part of the mortgage lending business strategy, almost all loans are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and home loan sales. these sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor. for further information on the company consumer loans, see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk that inadequate or failed internal processes, personnel resources and/or systems will result in losses to the business. operational risk also refers to the risk that external events, such as external changes, failures or frauds, will result in losses to the business. the company performs the functions required to operate its different businesses either by itself or through agreements with third parties. the company relies on the ability of its employees, its internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process high numbers of transactions. these transactions may cross multiple markets and involve different currencies. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of the company or third-party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. in light of the pervasiveness of operational risk and the diversity and complexity of that risk as experienced by the individual business segments, control groups and other supporting functions, the company manages operational risk through a combination of line management and company-wide oversight responsibilities. as part of the company line management structure for operational risk, each business segment has a designated operational risk manager. in addition, business segment risk committees review operational risk matters and/or reports on a regular basis. each control group and supporting function also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a regular forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management within the area. the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels. for example, the company securities businesses have procedures that require: that all transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the company books and that records are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations are subject to periodic independent review procedures; and that collateral and adequate documentation are obtained from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. with respect to its investment management activities, the company manages operational risk related to its various data processing systems through, among other things, internal controls such as reconciliations and various backup procedures. with respect to its consumer lending activities, the company manages operational risk through its system of internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. the company also uses periodic self-assessments and internal audit reviews as a further check on operational risk. as new products and business activities are developed and as processes are designed and modified, operational risks are identified and control requirements are defined to mitigate the identified risks. these controls include the following range of risk categories: (i) internal fraud; (ii) external fraud; (iii) employment practices and workplace safety; (iv) clients, products and business practices; (v) damage to physical assets; (vi) business disruptions and system failures; and (vii) execution, delivery and process management. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster 96 table of contents recovery plans include: crisis management; data and applications recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis and training. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. through organizations promoting information security, such as the financial services information sharing analysis center and various other resources focused on information security, the company continues to enhance its ability to detect and defend against cyber threats. the company also utilizes the services of various external vendors that provide services in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the law division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 97 table of contents [this page intentionally left blank] 98 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there have been legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty, including variations in the fair value of securities and other financial products and the volatility and liquidity of global markets. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number, and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our retail brokerage business. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business. furthermore, changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of our discover business. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. general. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the 17 table of contents methods described above, we would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of our credit ratings or otherwise affect our ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the level and volatility of our earnings; our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate; our geographic and product diversification; our ability to retain key personnel; our risk management policies; our cash liquidity; our capital adequacy; our corporate lending credit risk; and legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of these factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings, thereby increasing our cost of obtaining unsecured funding. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business, we would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either moody investors service or standard &amp; poor s. payments from subsidiaries. we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. liquidity and funding policies. our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. if our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. see management discussion and analysis of results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 for a discussion of how we monitor and manage liquidity risk. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from the default by a borrower, counterparty or other obligor when it is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us. we are exposed to three distinct types of credit risk in our businesses. we incur significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business. this risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various credit arrangements. we incur individual consumer credit risk in the retail brokerage business through margin loans to individual investors and loans to small businesses, both of which are generally collateralized. we incur consumer portfolio credit risk in the discover business primarily through cardholder receivables. credit risk in a pool of cardholder receivables is generally highly diversified, without significant individual exposures, and, accordingly, is managed on a portfolio and not a single-name basis. the amount, duration and range of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. in recent years, we have significantly expanded our use of swaps and other derivatives and we may continue to do so. corporate clients are increasingly seeking loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. in addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, increased pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivatives instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. as a 18 table of contents clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. for more information regarding our credit risk, see credit risk in part ii, item 7a below. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry, and all of our businesses, are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. this convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see competition in part i, item 1 above. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and moves with performance. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. we are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. we are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm to us, or harm our business prospects. new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see regulation in part i, item 1 above. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. we are also subject to risk from 19 table of contents potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved and in particular, the coleman litigation , see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 below. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. our reputation is one of our most important assets. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. for example, conflicts may arise between our position as a financial advisor in a merger transaction and a principal investment we hold in one of the parties to the transaction. in addition, hedge funds and private equity funds are an increasingly important portion of our client base, and also compete with us in a number of our businesses. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address conflicts of interest. however, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, the sec and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. it is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. it is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses. we are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect reserves. we are subject to the income tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. these tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. we are subject to operational risk and an operational failure could materially adversely affect our businesses. operational risk refers to the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and/or systems. operational risk also refers to the risk that external events, such as external changes (e.g., natural disasters, terrorist attacks and/or health epidemics), failures or frauds, will result in losses to our businesses. we incur operational risk across all of our business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g., such as sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and facilities management). our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process high numbers of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third-party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. for more information regarding operational risk, see operational risk in part ii, section 7a below. 20 table of contents our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of power, natural gas and petroleum. in addition, we are the sole shareholder of wholesale electrical generators. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental, safety and other governmental laws and regulations. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including leaks, spills and terrorist attacks. the power generation facilities in which we are the sole shareholder are subject to wide-ranging u.s. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the u.s. and abroad relating to air quality, water quality and hazardous and solid waste management. they also are regulated under u.s. health and safety regulations. these laws may require capital expenditures as well as remediation where the facility has failed to comply with environmental, health or safety rules or has released pollutants into the environment. additionally, the owners of such facilities may be subject to fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental, health or safety rules. the u.s. water pollution laws and numerous specific oil spill anti-pollution statutes apply to our oil trading activities to the extent we own petroleum in storage or during waterborne or overland transit or we arrange for transportation or storage. in the event of an oil spill, one or more entities we own could be held responsible for remediation as well as property and natural resource damages. other u.s. federal and state laws apply to the specifications of the gasoline and diesel fuel that we blend and import and provide for substantial penalties in the event of non-compliance. oil pollution laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions also apply to us in certain instances when we trade petroleum internationally and/or charter vessels. like the u.s. statutes, these laws often provide for penalties and damage assessments should a spill event occur. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds from insurance recovery, if any, may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our energy business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only 21 table of contents on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. in the last several years, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. we may be unable to fully integrate future acquisitions or joint ventures into our businesses and systems. we expect to grow in part through acquisitions and joint ventures. to the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations or joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. in the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. our discover business subjects us to risks that impact the credit card industry. the performance of our discover business is subject to numerous risks that impact the credit card industry, including rising cost of funds pressuring spreads; slow industry growth with rising payment rates; future loan loss rate uncertainty, especially given bankruptcy reform and changing minimum payment requirements; and a consolidating industry with competitive pressures and increasing marketing constraints. changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality. our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 90 equity and debt securities purchased in connection with private equity and other principal investment activities initially are carried in the consolidated financial statements at their original costs, which approximate fair value. the carrying value of such securities is adjusted when changes in the underlying fair values are readily ascertainable, generally as evidenced by observable market prices or transactions that directly affect the value of such securities. downward adjustments relating to such securities are made in the event that the company determines that the fair value is less than the carrying value. the company partnership interests, including general partnership and limited partnership interests in real estate funds, are included within other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition and are recorded at fair value based upon changes in the fair value of the underlying partnership net assets. the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. in the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include reviews of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the financial control and market risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the company recorded fair value for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these otc derivative products. for more information 72 table of contents regarding the company risk management practices, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. allowance for consumer loan losses. the allowance for consumer loan losses in the company discover business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio and is evaluated quarterly for adequacy. in calculating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. this process starts with a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact future credit loss experience, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see discover provision for consumer loan losses herein). aircraft under operating leases. aircraft held for sale. on august 17, 2005, the company announced that its board of directors had approved management recommendation to sell the company non-core aircraft leasing business. in connection with this action, the aircraft leasing business was classified as held for sale under the provisions of sfas no. 144 and reported as discontinued operations in the company consolidated financial statements. the aircraft portfolio was not depreciated after august 17, 2005. in addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the company recognized a charge of approximately $1.7 billion ($1.0 billion after-tax) to reflect the write-down of the aircraft leasing business to its estimated fair value of approximately $2.0 billion. in determining the charge that was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the company estimated the value to be realized in selling the aircraft leasing business as a whole. the estimated value of the business was based on the appraised values of the aircraft portfolio, an evaluation of then current market conditions, recent transactions involving the sales of similar aircraft leasing businesses, a detailed assessment of the portfolio and additional valuation analyses. on january 30, 2006, the company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement under which it will sell its aircraft leasing business to terra firma, a european private equity group, for approximately $2.5 billion in cash and the assumption of liabilities. based on the terms of the agreement and in accordance with sfas no. 144, the company revised its estimate of the fair value (less selling costs) of the aircraft leasing business and, as a result, in the fourth quarter reduced the pre-tax charge recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 by approximately $1.1 billion. full year results for fiscal 2005 reflected a charge of $509 million ($316 million after-tax). the sale is subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions and is expected to close in the first half of 2006. 73 table of contents aircraft to be held and used. prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2005, aircraft under operating leases that were to be held and used were stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges. depreciation was calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the aircraft asset, which was generally 25 years from the date of manufacture. in accordance with sfas no. 144, the company aircraft that were to be held and used were reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying value of the aircraft may not be recoverable. under sfas no. 144, the carrying value of an aircraft may not be recoverable if its projected undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value. if an aircraft projected undiscounted cash flows were less than its carrying value, the company recognized an impairment charge equal to the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the aircraft. the fair value of the company impaired aircraft was based upon the average market appraisal values obtained from independent appraisal companies. estimates of future cash flows associated with the aircraft assets as well as the appraisals of fair value are critical to the determination of whether an impairment exists and the amount of the impairment charge, if any (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). legal, regulatory and tax contingencies. in the normal course of business, the company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. the company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the company business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the company. reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. the company is subject to the income tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the company has significant business operations. these tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. the company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate. the company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with sfas no. 5. once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a 74 table of contents change. significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any. see notes 9 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations. certain factors affecting results of operations. the company results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. in addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there continues to be a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. such factors also may have an impact on the company ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. for a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the company business, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. 75 table of contents liquidity and capital resources. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company. through various risk and control committees, the company senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. these committees, along with the company treasury department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the company business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the company liquidity and capital policies. for a description of the company other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. the company liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse franchise or business impact. the key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the company business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. the principal elements of the company liquidity framework are the cash capital policy, the liquidity reserve and stress testing through the contingency funding plan. comprehensive financing guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities and committed credit facilities) support the company target liquidity profile. the balance sheet. the company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. given the nature of the company market-making and customer financing activities, the overall size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. the company total assets increased to $898.5 billion at november 30, 2005 from $747.3 billion at november 30, 2004. the increase was primarily due to increases in securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed and financial instruments owned (largely driven by increases in corporate and other debt and corporate equities). the increases were largely the result of higher market levels globally and an increase in client business opportunities. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. the company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. these low-risk assets generally are attributable to the company matched book and securities lending businesses. adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishment of liabilities a replacement of fasb statement no. 125, and fasb interpretation no. 46 ( fin 46 ), consolidation of variable interest entities, as revised. the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). in addition, the company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. these characteristics include the long-dated nature (final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the company option by a further 19 years), the company ability to defer coupon 76 table of contents interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. the company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities. the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004: balance at average month-end balance november 30, 2005 november 30, 2004 fiscal 2005 fiscal 2004 (dollars in millions, except ratio data) total assets $ 898,523 $ 747,334 $ 828,009 $ 711,833 less: securities purchased under agreements to resell (174,330 ) (123,041 ) (147,057 ) (98,485 ) securities borrowed (244,241 ) (208,349 ) (225,984 ) (191,767 ) add: financial instruments sold, not yet purchased 147,000 111,315 130,936 127,736 less: derivative contracts sold, not yet purchased (44,952 ) (43,540 ) (42,192 ) (42,488 ) subtotal 582,000 483,719 543,712 506,829 less: segregated customer cash and securities balances (30,540 ) (26,534 ) (30,483 ) (25,596 ) assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fin 46, as revised (67,091 ) (44,895 ) (56,865 ) (39,728 ) goodwill and intangible assets (2,500 ) (2,199 ) (2,471 ) (1,761 ) adjusted assets $ 481,869 $ 410,091 $ 453,893 $ 439,744 shareholders equity $ 29,182 $ 28,206 $ 28,501 $ 26,718 junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts 2,764 2,897 2,859 2,877 subtotal 31,946 31,103 31,360 29,595 less: goodwill and intangible assets (2,500 ) (2,199 ) (2,471 ) (1,761 ) tangible shareholders equity $ 29,446 $ 28,904 $ 28,889 $ 27,834 leverage ratio(1) 30.5 x 25.9 x 28.7 x 25.6 x adjusted leverage ratio(2) 16.4 x 14.2 x 15.7 x 15.8 x (1) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (2) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. the company total capital consists of shareholders equity, long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months), junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts, and capital units. at november 30, 2005, total capital was $125.9 billion, an increase of $15.1 billion from november 30, 2004. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2005, the company issued senior notes aggregating $35.3 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $15.0 billion. in connection with the note issuances, the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2005, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company senior debt indentures) was approximately $132 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). the weighted average maturity of the company long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately five years at november 30, 2005. subsequent to fiscal year-end and through january 31, 2006, the company long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $6 billion. economic capital. the company uses an economic capital model to determine the amount of equity capital needed to support the risk of its business activities and to ensure that the company remains adequately capitalized. the company 77 table of contents calculates economic capital on a going concern basis, which is defined as the amount of capital needed to run the business through the business cycle and satisfy the requirements of regulators, rating agencies and the market. business unit economic capital allocations are evaluated by benchmarking to similarly rated peer firms by business segment. the company believes this methodology provides an indication of the appropriate level of capital for each business segment as if each were an independent operating entity. economic capital requirements are allocated to each business segment and are sub-allocated to product lines as appropriate. this process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns (such as return on economic capital and shareholder value added) to facilitate resource allocation decisions. the company methodology is based on an approach that assigns economic capital to each business unit based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses. regulatory capital, including additional capital assigned for goodwill, intangible assets and principal investment risk, is a minimum requirement to ensure funding access and customer credibility. the company believes it must be able to sustain stress losses and maintain capital substantially above regulatory minimums while supporting ongoing business activities. aggregate economic capital requirements represent the minimum amount of book equity capital required under the going concern approach. the difference between the company consolidated common equity and aggregate economic capital denotes the company unallocated capital position, which is not currently allocated to the business segments or reflected in business segment performance metrics. the company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. stress losses are defined at the 90% to 95% confidence interval in order to capture worst potential losses in 10 to 20 years. stress loss calculations are tangible and transparent and avoid reliance on extreme loss statistical models. market risk scenarios capture systematic, idiosyncratic and random market risk through the use of internal market stress data. credit risk is included in the form of idiosyncratic counterparty default events. business risk incorporates earnings volatility due to variability in revenue flows, with estimates on the mix of fixed versus variable expenses at various points in the business cycle. operational stress losses primarily reflect legal risk across the company. the company may enhance the economic capital model and allocation methodology over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment to ensure that the model continues to reflect the risks inherent in the company business activities and to reflect changes in the drivers of the level and cost of required capital. the following table presents the allocation of the company average common equity during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004: fiscal year 2005 2004 average common equity (dollars in billions): institutional securities $ 14.6 $ 13.3 retail brokerage 3.7 3.5 asset management 1.7 1.7 discover 4.4 3.9 total from operating segments 24.4 22.4 discontinued operations 1.2 1.5 unallocated capital 2.9 2.8 consolidated $ 28.5 $ 26.7 78 table of contents equity capital management policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity base adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company inventories, underwritings, principal investments, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, and investments in fixed assets, including aircraft assets (see discontinued operations herein). the company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. at november 30, 2005, the company equity capital (which includes shareholders equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $31.9 billion, an increase of $0.8 billion from november 30, 2004. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. the board of directors has authorized the company to purchase, subject to market conditions and certain other factors, shares of common stock for capital management purposes. there were no repurchases made under the capital management authorization during fiscal 2005. the unused portion of this authorization at january 31, 2006 was approximately $600 million. the company also has an ongoing repurchase authorization in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans. during fiscal 2005, the company purchased approximately $3.7 billion of its common stock (approximately 68 million shares) through a combination of open market purchases and purchases from employees at an average cost of $54.31 (see also market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities in part ii, item 5). the company currently anticipates that it will repurchase between $2 billion and $4 billion of its common stock pursuant to its equity antidilution program during fiscal 2006. the actual amount of repurchases will be subject to market conditions and certain other factors. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. in december 2005, the company announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. 79 table of contents liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company liquidity and funding activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. given the highly liquid nature of the company balance sheet, day-to-day funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of stable collateralized financing. the company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the treasury department. in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand an unforeseen contraction in credit availability, the company has designed a liquidity management framework. liquidity management framework: designed to: contingency funding plan ascertain the company ability to manage a prolonged liquidity contraction and provide a course of action over a one-year time period to ensure orderly functioning of the businesses. the contingency funding plan sets forth the process and the internal and external communication flows necessary to ensure effective management of the contingency event. analytical processes exist to periodically evaluate and report the liquidity risk exposures of the organization under management-defined scenarios. cash capital ensure that the company can fund its balance sheet while repaying its financial obligations maturing within one year without issuing new unsecured debt. the company attempts to achieve this by maintaining sufficient cash capital (long-term debt and equity capital) to finance illiquid assets and the portion of its securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment. liquidity reserve maintain, at all times, a liquidity reserve composed of immediately available cash and cash equivalents and a pool of unencumbered securities that can be sold or pledged to provide same-day liquidity to the company. the reserve is periodically assessed and determined based on day-to-day funding requirements and strategic liquidity targets. the liquidity reserve averaged approximately $48 billion during fiscal 2005, of which approximately $32 billion on average was held at the parent company. contingency funding plan. the company contingency funding plan ( cfp ) model incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks. the company cfp is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. the cfp assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. in addition, the cfp assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities. bank subsidiaries that operate in a deposit-protected environment are not expected to be impacted by a company-specific credit event and are expected to continue to provide reliable funding for assets held in these entities. these entities include discover bank, which primarily funds credit card receivables, and morgan stanley bank, which funds senior loans and certain mortgage assets. discover bank also accesses the asset-backed financing market for a significant portion of its funding requirements. 80 table of contents cash capital. the company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. sources of cash capital include the parent company equity and the non-current portion of certain long-term borrowings. uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, aircraft (see discontinued operations herein), equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment (i.e., stressed haircuts); and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments. the company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. the company equity capital of $31.9 billion (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts), long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $93.9 billion and capital units of $66 million comprised the company total capital of $125.9 billion as of november 30, 2005, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements. liquidity reserve. the company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve that is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets, including coverage of a significant portion of expected cash outflows over a short-term horizon in a potential liquidity crisis. this liquidity reserve is held in the form of cash deposits with banks and a pool of unencumbered securities. the company manages the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, on a global basis, and securities for the pool are chosen accordingly. the u.s. component, held in the form of a reverse repurchase agreement at the parent company, consists primarily of u.s. government bonds and at november 30, 2005 was approximately $24 billion and averaged approximately $16 billion for the year ended november 30, 2005. the non-u.s. component consists of european government bonds and other high-quality collateral. the parent company cash component of the liquidity reserve at november 30, 2005 was approximately $14 billion and averaged approximately $16 billion for the year ended november 30, 2005. the company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. the company funding requirements and target liquidity reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors. committed credit facilities. the maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the company funding sources. the company values committed credit as a secondary component of its liquidity management framework. the committed credit facilities include a diversification of lenders to the company covering geographic regions, including north america, europe and asia. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of two separate tranches: a u.s. dollar tranche with the company as borrower and a japanese yen tranche with morgan stanley japan limited ( msjl ) as borrower and the company as guarantor. under this combined facility (the ms-msjl facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $5.5 billion under the u.s. dollar tranche and 70 billion japanese yen under the japanese yen tranche. at november 30, 2005, the company had a $10.8 billion consolidated stockholders equity surplus as compared with the ms-msjl facility covenant requirement. the company maintains a master collateral facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co. ), one of the company u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial accommodations (the ms&amp;co. facility ). as part of the ms&amp;co. facility, ms&amp;co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.8 billion. at 81 table of contents november 30, 2005, ms&amp;co. had a $2.6 billion surplus consolidated stockholders equity and a $0.1 billion surplus net capital as defined in the ms&amp;co. facility and each as compared with the ms&amp;co. facility covenant requirements. the company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables morgan stanley &amp; co. international limited ( msil ), the company london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, to obtain committed funding from a syndicate of banks (the msil facility ) by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements for a secured repo facility and a company guarantee for an unsecured facility. the syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion, available in six major currencies. at november 30, 2005, msil had a $3.0 billion surplus shareholders funds and a $2.9 billion surplus financial resources under u.k. gaap (each as determined in accordance with the msil facility) as compared with the msil facility covenant requirements. the company anticipates that it may utilize the ms-msjl facility, the ms&amp;co. facility or the msil facility (the credit facilities ) for short-term funding from time to time (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in any of its credit facilities will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facilities, to pay its current level of dividends, or to obtain loan arrangements, letters of credit or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2005, no borrowings were outstanding under any of the credit facilities. the company and its subsidiaries also maintain certain committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. these facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. on a yearly basis, the company committed credit strategy is reviewed and approved by its senior management. this strategy takes the company total liquidity sources into consideration when determining the appropriate size and mix of committed credit. the company, through one of its subsidiaries, maintains several funded committed credit facilities to support the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan business. lenders to these facilities provided an aggregate of $18.2 billion in financing at november 30, 2005. funding management policies. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, euro, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. the company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the u.s., european and asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the u.s. dollar, euro, british pound, australian dollar and japanese yen. the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits obtained from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposit. the company funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the company operations that would result from an interruption in the availability of the company funding sources. the company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding 82 table of contents sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs. secured financing. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowings, while the securitization market allows for the securitization of the credit card receivables arising from the company discover business. the company goal is to maximize funding through less credit sensitive collateralized borrowings and asset securitizations in order to reduce reliance on unsecured financing. the institutional securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. as part of this effort, the institutional securities business continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity. similarly, discover, through its use of the securitization market, reduces the need for other unsecured parent company financing. unsecured financing. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the company discover business) are used to finance the company consumer loan portfolio. consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. the company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). the company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its cash capital policy. in addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the company liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. the company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. this approach gives the company flexibility to manage the unsecured debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that intercompany borrowings mature before those of the parent company. liquidity and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the company ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company. during fiscal 2005, the company long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improved balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. as a result, for fiscal 2005, $27 billion of unsecured debt was issued (excluding certain equity and credit-linked products not considered to be a component of the company cash capital). financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing 83 table of contents risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $13 billion. credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or that otherwise affect its ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the company level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, retention of key personnel, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. in addition, continuing consolidation in the credit card industry presents discover with stronger competitors that may challenge future growth. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured funding. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either moody investors service or standard &amp; poor s. at november 30, 2005, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $1,213 million. of this amount, $422 million relates to bilateral arrangements between the company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. these bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded. as of january 31, 2006, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited(1) r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings f1+ aa- moody investors service(2) p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc. a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor a-1 a+ (1) on april 5, 2005, dominion bond rating service limited changed the outlook on the company senior debt ratings from stable to negative. (2) on april 5, 2005, moody investors service changed the outlook on the company senior debt ratings from stable to negative. off-balance sheet arrangements. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities and discover businesses. institutional securities activities . the company utilizes special purpose entities ( spe ) primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the 84 table of contents consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the company institutional securities business were approximately $3.6 billion at november 30, 2005, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligation and commercial mortgage loan securitization transactions. for further information about the company institutional securities securitization activities, see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information about variable interest entities, the company arrangements with these entities and its adoption of fin 46, as revised. the company has entered into liquidity facilities with spes and other counterparties, whereby the company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. the company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the spes in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). discover activities. the asset securitization market is a significant source of funding for the company discover business. by utilizing this market, the company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the company other funding sources, including unsecured debt. the securitization transaction structures utilized for the discover business are accounted for as sales; i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with u.s. gaap (see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in connection with its credit card securitization program, the company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to the trusts, which issue asset-backed securities that are registered with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ), are used to support the issuance of publicly listed notes or are privately placed. this structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions, potentially resulting in the need for the company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. the primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ( economic early amortization ). economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trusts credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. in the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trust from the company would instead continue to be recognized on the company consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trust would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. these recognized receivables would require the company to obtain alternative funding. the increase in bankruptcy notifications, which reflected an increase in consumers filing for bankruptcy in advance of the new u.s. bank legislation that became effective in october 2005, affected the discover card master trust i ( dcmt ), a trust utilized by the company to access the securitization markets through the issuance of multiple series of securities. the dcmt agreements contain provisions that require early amortization of securities issued by the trust if group excess spread (a measure of trust profitability as further defined in the dcmt agreements) falls below zero over a three-month rolling average period ( early amortization trigger ). one particular series that supported a short-term certificate program had, in addition to the standard early amortization trigger, another provision that required group excess spread be at least 2% in order to continue to issue certificates. in order to avoid a potential prohibition on the continued ability to issue certificates, the company decided to retire this particular series. no series in the trust has experienced or expects to experience an early amortization event. guarantees. fasb interpretation no. 45 ( fin 45 ), guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others, requires the company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. fin 45 defines guarantees as contracts 85 table of contents and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. fin 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. the table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at november 30, 2005: maximum potential payout/notional carrying amount collateral/ recourse years to maturity type of guarantee less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 total (dollars in millions) derivative contracts $ 477,387 $ 408,869 $ 537,232 $ 444,284 $ 1,867,772 $ 28,563 $ 106 standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees 4,432 250 603 1,756 7,041 83 854 market value guarantees 15 131 78 676 900 54 135 liquidity facilities 1,437 8 49 98 1,592 see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for information on indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees, merchant chargeback guarantees and other guarantees. contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. in connection with its operating activities, the company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments. in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations at november 30, 2005 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of november 30, 2005 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2006 fiscal 2007-2008 fiscal 2009-2010 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 13,822 $ 41,098 $ 17,536 $ 38,009 $ 110,465 operating leases(2) 438 819 605 1,718 3,580 purchase obligations(3) 465 596 228 1,289 total $ 14,725 $ 42,513 $ 18,369 $ 39,727 $ 115,334 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. purchase obligations at november 30, 2005 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. these amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the company consolidated balance sheet. the table above does not include amounts associated with the company definitive agreement to acquire goldfish from lloyds tsb for approximately &pound;1 billion (see business acquisitions and sales herein). 86 table of contents the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, principal investments and private equity activities, and lending and financing commitments as of november 30, 2005 are summarized below by period of expiration. since commitments associated with letters of credit and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: years to maturity total less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) letters of credit(1) $ 6,903 $ 1 $ $ $ 6,904 principal investment activities 178 150 28 200 556 investment grade lending commitments(2) 4,324 5,218 11,705 2,721 23,968 non-investment grade lending commitments(2) 2,376 5,916 3,654 1,120 13,066 commitments for secured lending transactions(3) 10,582 1,624 86 90 12,382 commitments to purchase mortgage loans(4) 6,304 6,304 total(5) $ 30,667 $ 12,909 $ 15,473 $ 4,131 $ 63,180 (1) this amount represents the company outstanding letters of credit, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral requirements. (2) the company investment grade and non-investment grade lending commitments are made in connection with its corporate lending activities. credit ratings are determined by the company institutional credit department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. (3) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. (4) this amount represents the company forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans. (5) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. the table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $255 billion. such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. these commitments, substantially all of which the company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. at november 30, 2005, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $90 billion and $57 billion, respectively. 87 table of contents investments. the table below includes investments made by the company that represent business facilitation or principal investing activities at november 30, 2005 and are included within other assets on the consolidated statement of financial condition. business facilitation investments are strategic investments undertaken by the company to facilitate core business activities. principal investing activities are capital commitments provided to private companies, generally, for proprietary purposes to maximize total returns to the company. the company has committed to increasing its principal investing activity in an attempt to improve its financial performance. the company intends to make additional investments over time to bring the level of principal investments to approximately $2.5 billion. at november 30, 2005 institutional securities asset management discover total (dollars in millions) business facilitation: private equity funds $ $ 185 $ $ 185 real estate funds 359 359 asset management seed capital 248 248 industry utilities(1) 371 371 other 152 23 175 total business facilitation 882 433 23 1,338 principal investments 1,190 1,190 total $ 2,072 $ 433 $ 23 $ 2,528 (1) any investment made to participate in an industry consortium or an industry service with the intention to support core business activities and advance business growth. regulatory developments. in june 2004, the sec issued rules that permit certain highly capitalized broker-dealers that are part of a consolidated supervised entity to apply to the sec for approval to use an alternative method for calculating net capital charges (the cse rules ). to obtain approval to calculate capital under the alternative method in the cse rules, a broker-dealer holding company must consent, on a voluntary basis, to group-wide supervision and examination by the sec and must have in place group-wide internal risk management controls and calculate capital in a manner generally consistent with the standards of the basel committee on banking supervision ( basel ii ). the cse rules are intended to reduce regulatory capital costs for qualifying firms by permitting such firms to use proprietary mathematical risk measurement models for regulatory capital computation and internal control purposes. on july 28, 2005, the sec approved an application by ms&amp;co., one of the company u.s. broker-dealers, for authorization to use, effective december 1, 2005, the alternative method of computing net capital set forth in the cse rules. the approval allows ms&amp;co. to use an alternative method based on mathematical models to calculate net capital charges for market and derivatives-related credit risk. the cse rules are also designed to minimize the duplicative regulatory requirements on u.s. securities firms resulting from the european union ( eu ) directive (2002/87/ec) concerning the supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates active in the eu. under this directive, financial groups that conduct business through regulated financial entities in the eu must first demonstrate that they are subject to equivalent consolidated supervision at the ultimate holding company level. on november 30, 2005, the u.k. financial services authority determined that the sec undertakes equivalent consolidated supervision for the company. the company continues to work with its regulators on the implementation of the cse rules and basel ii capital standards. as rules related to basel ii are released, the company will consult with regulators on the new 88 table of contents requirements. compliance with eu requirements (capital, oversight and reporting) will be a focus item through 2008. regulatory capital requirements. ms&amp;co. and morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the nyse and the commodity futures trading commission. msil, a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and msjl, a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. ms&amp;co., msdwi, msil and msjl have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the federal deposit insurance corporation (the fdic ) and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2005, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc., the company triple-a rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 89 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the extent to which the company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market, credit, operational, legal, and liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is protection of the company franchise, reputation and financial standing. the company risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. given the importance of effective risk management to the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the company and business segment level. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification. the nature of the company risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure includes the firm risk committee and the capital structure and strategic transactions committee, the chief risk officer, the internal audit department, independent control groups, and various risk control managers, committees and groups located within the business segments. the firm risk committee, composed of the company most senior officers, oversees the company risk management structure. the firm risk committee responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise risks. the firm risk committee is overseen by the audit committee of the board of directors (the audit committee ). the capital structure and strategic transactions committee (the capital committee ) reviews strategic transactions for the company and significant changes to the company capital structure. the capital committee responsibilities include reviewing measures of capital and evaluating capital resources relative to the company risk profile and strategy. the chief risk officer, a member of the firm risk committee, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves certain excessions of company risk limits; reviews material market and credit risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the audit committee. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the audit committee and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department periodically examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. 90 table of contents the market risk, credit risk, operational risk, financial control, treasury and law departments (collectively, the company control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the firm risk committee in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the firm risk committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. each of the company business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively, segment control groups and, together with the company control groups, the control groups ) to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. the control groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than liquidity and funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business where the substantial majority of the company value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within retail brokerage. asset management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in funds and investments in private equity vehicles. discover is also exposed to non-trading market risk primarily through changes in interest rates related to its consumer lending activities. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries 91 table of contents and maintains the company var system. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management . during fiscal 2005, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the company revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. 92 table of contents var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 99%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and interest rate risk, and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2005 . the table below presents the company aggregate (trading and non-trading), trading and non-trading var for each of the company primary market risk exposures at november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. aggregate trading and non-trading var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions and (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the company. investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. as of november 30, 2005, the aggregate carrying value of such investments was approximately $2.0 billion. 93 table of contents since the var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than once in 100 trading days. the table below presents var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004: aggregate (trading and non-trading) trading non-trading table 1: 99% total var 99%/one-day var at november 30, 99%/one-day var at november 30, 99%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 56 $ 71 $ 51 $ 53 $ 35 $ 30 equity price 41 42 36 38 10 5 foreign exchange rate 10 10 10 10 commodity price 50 27 50 27 subtotal 157 150 147 128 45 35 less diversification benefit(1) 64 56 65 48 7 5 total var $ 93 $ 94 $ 82 $ 80 $ 38 $ 30 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company aggregate var and trading var at november 30, 2005 were $93 million and $82 million, respectively, compared with $94 million and $80 million, respectively, at november 30, 2004. non-trading var at november 30, 2005 increased to $38 million from $30 million at november 30, 2004 due to an increase in non-trading interest rate and credit spread var and equity price var. non-trading interest rate and credit spread var increased due to an increase in interest rate risk associated with funding liabilities. non-trading equity price var increased primarily due to a concentrated position in principal investments resulting from a recent initial public offering in which the company was an investor. the company views average trading var over the fiscal year as more representative of trends in the business than var at any single point in time. table 2 below, which presents the high, low and average 99%/one-day trading var during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, represents substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from these measures (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions). average trading var for fiscal 2005 increased to $85 million from $73 million in fiscal 2004, reflecting increases in interest rate and credit spread var and commodity price var. the increase in interest rate and credit spread var was predominantly driven by increased exposures to credit sensitive instruments (e.g., corporate debt securities) and to interest rate levels. the increase in commodity price var was predominantly driven by increased exposures to energy (i.e., natural gas and electricity) and oil products (i.e., crude and distillates). table 2: 99% high/low/average trading var daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2005 daily 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2004 primary market risk category high low average high low average (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 81 $ 44 $ 58 $ 80 $ 39 $ 50 equity price 48 25 35 48 24 34 foreign exchange rate 22 7 12 21 6 11 commodity price 53 30 38 49 22 33 trading var $ 109 $ 69 $ 85 $ 97 $ 55 $ 73 94 table of contents var statistics for comparisons with other global financial services firms. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in the var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 3 below presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (99% versus 95%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years versus one year), for market data upon which it bases its simulations: table 3: average 99% and 95% trading var with four-year/one-year historical time series average 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2005 average 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2005 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 58 $ 50 $ 37 $ 33 equity price 35 30 25 21 foreign exchange rate 12 11 8 7 commodity price 38 33 26 22 trading var $ 85 $ 71 $ 57 $ 49 in addition, if the company were to report trading var (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the company 99% and 95% average trading var for fiscal 2005 would have been $270 million and $181 million, respectively. 95 table of contents distribution of var statistics and net revenues for fiscal 2005. as shown in table 2 above, the company average 99%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2005 was $85 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 99%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2005. the most frequently occurring value was between $78 million and $81 million, while for approximately 86% of trading days during the fiscal year, var ranged between $72 million and $99 million. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 99%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is three, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than five times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net revenue during fiscal 2005 for the company trading businesses (including net interest and commissions but excluding primary and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). there were no days during fiscal 2005 in which the company incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 99%/one-day trading var for that given day. additionally, there were no days during fiscal 2005 where the largest one-day loss exceeded the lowest 99%/one-day trading var reported in table 2 above. 96 table of contents consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management . in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations, long-term borrowings and deposits. the company interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations . for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. a portion of the company credit card receivables has a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with 97 table of contents rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the commercial paper or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2005, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $36 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2004 was estimated to be approximately $60 million. the decrease in the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2005 was due to a higher level of variable interest rate assets. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor is unable to meet its financial obligations. the company is exposed to three distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. the company incurs significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business. this type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. the company incurs individual consumer credit risk in the retail brokerage business through margin loans to individual investors, which are generally collateralized, and loans to small businesses. the company incurs consumer portfolio credit risk in the discover business primarily through cardholder receivables. credit risk in a pool of credit card receivables is generally highly diversified, without significant individual exposures, and, accordingly, is managed on a portfolio and not a single-name basis. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed discretely. the institutional credit department ( institutional credit ) manages credit risk exposure for the institutional securities business. institutional credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure in the retail brokerage business is managed through various credit risk committees, whose membership includes institutional credit. the retail brokerage risk management department is responsible for 98 table of contents monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. credit risk exposure in the discover business is managed through the discover credit and market risk committee, which, in turn, is supported by business line specific risk committees and the credit risk management department, which is responsible for the development, validation and implementation of credit policy criteria, for predictive models, for the monitoring of performance for both new and existing products, and for oversight of adherence to existing policies and limits. institutional securities activities. lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. credit risk with respect to loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement. securitized products. the company also extends loans and lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value. other. in addition to the activities performed by institutional credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within institutional securities. for example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. certain risk management activities as it pertains to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale, and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities, or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. in order to help protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, institutional credit ensures that all material lending and derivative transactions are analyzed, that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly, and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. 99 table of contents institutional credit assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers. these credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or below are considered non-investment grade. additionally, institutional credit assigns a facility rating to lending facilities. the facility rating incorporates the relative position of the particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects. the company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties. institutional credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements may provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure-lending. at november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004, the aggregate value of investment grade loans and financial accommodations was $5.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of non-investment grade loans and positions was $2.3 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004, the aggregate value of lending commitments outstanding was $37.0 billion and $20.4 billion, respectively. the increase from the prior year was primarily related to acquisition financing activity. in connection with these business activities (which include funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $17.8 billion and $11.6 billion at november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004, respectively, including both internal and external hedges utilized by the lending business. the table below shows the company credit exposure from its lending positions and commitments as of november 30, 2005: lending commitments and funded loans years to maturity total lending exposure(2) funded loans credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 220 $ 106 $ 218 $ $ 544 $ aa 1,508 1,830 1,678 753 5,769 748 a 2,003 2,469 4,130 988 9,590 846 bbb 1,390 3,533 6,820 1,297 13,040 3,381 non-investment grade 2,735 6,545 4,176 1,947 15,403 2,337 total $ 7,856 $ 14,483 $ 17,022 $ 4,985 $ 44,346 $ 7,312 notional amount of hedges owned $ 17,815 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total lending exposure includes both lending commitments and funded loans. 100 table of contents credit exposure-derivatives. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2005. fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements, where applicable, and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 988 $ 1,096 $ 1,070 $ 2,043 $ (1,683 ) $ 3,514 $ 3,219 aa 7,943 4,385 4,843 14,628 (17,229 ) 14,570 13,288 a 3,746 3,006 2,508 4,983 (5,744 ) 8,499 7,429 bbb 2,670 4,642 1,519 3,022 (3,670 ) 8,183 5,201 non-investment grade 2,350 1,998 1,128 3,397 (3,933 ) 4,940 3,142 unrated(4) 690 575 380 363 (311 ) 1,697 418 total $ 18,387 $ 15,702 $ 11,448 $ 28,436 $ (32,570 ) $ 41,403 $ 32,697 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the creditworthiness of unrated companies, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. in making this determination, the company takes into account various factors, including legal uncertainties and market volatility. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2005, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 3,002 $ 5,461 $ 8,816 $ 24,635 $ (24,904 ) $ 17,010 $ 13,978 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,346 534 37 2 (371 ) 7,548 7,012 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,732 1,805 749 99 (1,267 ) 3,118 1,547 commodity forwards, options and swaps 6,307 7,902 1,846 3,700 (6,028 ) 13,727 10,160 total $ 18,387 $ 15,702 $ 11,448 $ 28,436 $ (32,570 ) $ 41,403 $ 32,697 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 101 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 2,796 $ 5,466 $ 6,132 $ 15,401 $ (16,724 ) $ 13,071 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,313 507 73 22 (320 ) 7,595 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 2,410 2,131 775 285 (904 ) 4,697 commodity forwards, options and swaps 6,720 8,462 2,423 1,393 (7,560 ) 11,438 total $ 19,239 $ 16,566 $ 9,403 $ 17,101 $ (25,508 ) $ 36,801 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the company derivatives (both listed and otc) at november 30, 2005 and november 30, 2004 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product: at november 30, 2005 at november 30, 2004 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps and options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 17,157 $ 13,212 $ 22,998 $ 18,797 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,548 7,597 9,285 8,668 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 7,290 11,957 5,898 7,373 commodity forwards, options and swaps 13,899 12,186 11,294 8,702 total $ 45,894 $ 44,952 $ 49,475 $ 43,540 each category of otc derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the fair values recorded in the above tables are determined by the company using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. as discussed under critical accounting policies, the structure of the transaction, including its maturity, is one of several important factors that may impact the price transparency. the impact of maturity on price transparency can differ significantly among product categories. for example, single currency and multi-currency interest rate derivative products involving highly standardized terms and the major currencies (e.g., the u.s. dollar or the euro) will generally have greater price transparency from published external sources even in maturity ranges beyond 20 years. credit derivatives with highly standardized terms and liquid underlying reference instruments can have price transparency from published external sources in a maturity ranging up to 10 years, while equity and foreign exchange derivative products with standardized terms in major currencies can have price transparency from published external sources within a two-year maturity range. commodity derivatives with standardized terms and 102 table of contents delivery locations can have price transparency from published external sources within various maturity ranges up to 10 years, depending on the commodity. in most instances of limited price transparency based on published external sources, dealers in these markets, in their capacities as market-makers and liquidity providers, provide price transparency beyond the above maturity ranges. country exposure. the company monitors its credit exposure and risk to individual countries. credit exposure to a country arises from the company lending activities and derivatives activities in a country. at november 30, 2005, less than 6% of the company total credit exposure (including loans, lending commitments and derivative contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 3% of the company total credit exposure. these country credit ratings are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. industry exposure. the company also monitors its credit exposure and risk to individual industries. at november 30, 2005, the company material credit exposure (including loans, lending commitments and derivative contracts) was to entities engaged in the following industries: utilities, financial institutions, energy, sovereign-related entities, consumer related and chemicals. retail brokerage activities. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of all margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. additionally, all transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. at november 30, 2005, there were approximately $6.6 billion of customer margin loans outstanding. in addition, retail brokerage is engaged in commercial lending to small businesses ( businesscape sm ) in the forms of revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgages. businesscape clients are required to submit a formal credit application, including the borrower financial statements. once the credit information is obtained, a comprehensive financial analysis is performed to determine proper structure, debt capacity, cash flow coverage to service debt, liquidity analysis and collateral analysis. in addition, financial reporting requirements and financial covenants are proposed and negotiated between the lender and the borrower. consumer lending activities. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit cardholders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company criteria and historical data. each cardmember credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover network merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants, with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume, chargeback, return and discount volumes. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. as part of the mortgage lending business strategy, almost all loans 103 table of contents are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and whole loan sales, while almost all servicing rights are retained. these sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor. for further information on the company consumer loans, see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and/or systems. operational risk also refers to the risk that external events, such as external changes (e.g., natural disasters, terrorist acts and/or health epidemics), failures or frauds, will result in losses to the company businesses. the company incurs operational risk across all of its business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and facilities management). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. during fiscal 2005, the company appointed a firm wide operational risk manager to oversee and monitor operational risk across the company. the operational risk manager, supported by the operational risk department, is responsible for facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the firmwide operational risk program. the operational risk department works with the business segments and control groups and other supporting functions to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the company. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk lies with the business segments and supporting functions. each business segment has a designated operational risk manager. in addition, business segment risk committees review operational risk matters and/or reports on a regular basis. each control group and supporting function also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a regular forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management. oversight of business segment operational risk is provided by business segment risk committees and ultimately senior management through the firm risk committee. the business segments maintain controls designed to manage and mitigate operational risk for existing activities. in addition, as new products and business activities are developed and as processes are designed and modified, new operational risks are identified and control requirements defined to mitigate the identified risks. operational risk controls relate to the full range of operational risk categories as defined by basel ii and include controls to mitigate risk relating to (i) theft and fraud; (ii) people; (iii) clients, products and business practices; (iv) technology; (v) physical assets and data security; (vi) transaction processing; (vii) financial and reporting; and (viii) external providers. the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify, assess, manage and control or mitigate operational risk at appropriate levels. for example, the company securities businesses have procedures that require: that all transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the company books and that records are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations are subject to independent review procedures; and that collateral and adequate documentation are obtained from counterparties in appropriate circumstances. with respect to its asset management activities, the company manages operational risk related to its various data processing systems through, among other things, internal controls such as reconciliations and various backup procedures. with respect to its consumer lending activities, the company manages operational risk through its system of internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts) are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; data and applications recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis training and testing. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. through 104 table of contents organizations promoting information security, such as the financial services information sharing analysis center and various other resources focused on information security, the company continues to enhance its ability to detect and defend against cyber threats. the company also utilizes the services of various external vendors that provide services in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the law division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 105 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. liquidity risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that morgan stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of morgan stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 below. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of our credit ratings or otherwise affect our ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the level and volatility of our earnings; our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate; our geographic and product diversification; our ability to retain key personnel; our risk profile; our risk management policies; our cash liquidity; our capital adequacy; our corporate lending credit risk; and legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of these factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings, thereby increasing our cost of obtaining unsecured funding. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business, we would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either moody investors service or standard &amp; poor s. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. 15 table of contents if our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing. our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. if our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate or we do not adhere to the policies, we may be unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see market risk in part ii, item 7a below. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. the amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic factors. results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there have been legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business. furthermore, changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the results of our discover business. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we have committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often require us to take large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. moreover, the trend in all major capital markets is towards larger and more frequent commitments of capital in many of these activities, and we expect this trend to continue. 16 table of contents the profitability of certain of our commodities marketing activities depends on the availability of supplies of petroleum products. a significant decrease in available supplies for any reason could adversely affect the sales and results of operations of certain businesses within our commodities activities. the success of our marketing and distribution in our commodities business depends on our ability to generate positive margins on sales of refined petroleum products. in addition, our terminal, tug and barge business depends on an active market for refined petroleum products to create demand for terminal services. the availability of supplies of refined petroleum products is essential to our pipeline, transport and terminal operations. a material disruption in the flow of refined petroleum product supplies could adversely affect our revenues from rack spot and contract sales, as well as throughput and storage fees. among such risks are force majeure conditions caused by natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. these conditions also may adversely affect the pipeline and marine operations as well as the shipping and terminaling operations in our commodities business. we may incur significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. we also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate sector. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from the default by a borrower, counterparty or other obligor when it is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations to us. we are exposed to three distinct types of credit risk in our businesses. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see credit risk in part ii, item 7a below. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business. this risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various credit arrangements. we incur individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business through margin loans to individual investors and loans to small businesses, both of which are generally collateralized. we incur consumer portfolio credit risk in the discover business primarily through cardholder receivables. credit risk in a pool of cardholder receivables is generally highly diversified, without significant individual exposures, and, accordingly, is managed on a portfolio and not a single-name basis. the amount, duration and range of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. in recent years, we have significantly expanded our use of swaps and other derivatives and we may continue to do so. corporate clients are increasingly seeking loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. in addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, increased pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivatives instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened 17 table of contents default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect morgan stanley. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources and systems or from external events (e.g. external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). morgan stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g. sales and trading) and support functions (e.g. information technology and facilities management). as such, morgan stanley may incur operational risk in each of its businesses, as well as within the control groups. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see operational risk in part ii, item 7a below. we are subject to operational risk and an operational event could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by morgan stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal risk. legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see legal risk in part ii, item 7a below. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure 18 table of contents of confidential information. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved and in particular, the coleman litigation , see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 below. we are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. we are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm to us, or harm our business prospects. new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see regulation in part i, item 1 above. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal and related products. in addition, we own three exempt wholesale generators in the u.s. and one electric generation facility in the netherlands. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental, safety and other governmental laws and regulations. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including leaks, spills and terrorist attacks. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks, including those discussed below, by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our energy business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. pipeline, marine transport and terminal operations. the risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in pipeline, marine transport and terminal operations. as is the case with respect to our other commodities activities, both u.s. and international environmental laws are or may be applicable, including u.s. and foreign oil spill anti-pollution statutes. liability may be incurred without regard to fault under federal laws and regulations and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. prior owners, tenants or users of properties now owned by us or our subsidiaries may have disposed of or released hydrocarbons or solid wastes on or under such assets. additionally, the acquired pipeline, transport and terminal operations are located near current or former refining and terminal operations. there is a risk that contamination, if ever present, has migrated or could migrate from those properties. increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for damages and other similar developments could result in substantial costs and liabilities. 19 table of contents certain operations in our commodities business are subject to the hazards inherent in the transportation and storage of volatile and sometimes toxic petroleum products, including explosions, the release of toxic substances, fires and accidents on land and at sea that could result in personal injuries, loss of life and suspension of operations. these operations also are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. although we maintain substantial insurance coverage, catastrophic events of this kind could exceed such coverage. power generation facilities. the power generation facilities we own are subject to wide-ranging u.s. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the u.s. and abroad relating to air quality, water quality and hazardous and solid waste management. they also are regulated under u.s. health and safety regulations. these laws may require capital expenditures as well as remediation where the facility has failed to comply with environmental, health or safety rules or has released pollutants into the environment. additionally, the owners of such facilities may be subject to fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental, health or safety rules. oil trading activities. the u.s. and foreign water pollution laws and numerous specific oil spill anti-pollution statutes apply to our oil trading activities to the extent we own petroleum in storage or during waterborne or overland transit or we arrange for transportation or storage. in the event of an oil spill, one or more entities we own could be held responsible for remediation as well as property and natural resource damages. other u.s. federal and state laws apply to the specifications of the gasoline and diesel fuel that we blend and import and provide for substantial penalties in the event of non-compliance. oil pollution laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions also apply to us in certain instances when we trade petroleum internationally and/or charter vessels. like the u.s. statutes, these laws often provide for penalties and damage assessments should a spill event occur. conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. our reputation is one of our most important assets. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. for example, conflicts may arise between our position as a financial advisor in a merger transaction and a principal investment we hold in one of the parties to the transaction. in addition, hedge funds and private equity funds are an increasingly important portion of our client base, and also compete with us in a number of our businesses. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address conflicts of interest. however, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, the sec and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. it is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. it is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses. we are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect results. we are subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. these tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. 20 table of contents competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry, and all of our businesses, are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. this convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see competition in part i, item 1 above. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and moves with performance. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. we have expanded, and continue to look at opportunities to expand, in the emerging markets. in the last several years, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls and low or negative growth rates in their economies. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. 21 table of contents acquisition risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from future acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. we expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. to the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations or joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. there is no assurance that our recent acquisitions or any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. credit card risk. our discover business subjects us to risks that impact the credit card industry. the performance of our discover business is subject to numerous risks that impact the credit card industry, including rising cost of funds pressuring spreads; slow industry growth with rising payment rates; future loan loss rate uncertainty, especially given bankruptcy reform and changing minimum payment requirements; and a consolidating industry with competitive pressures and increasing marketing constraints. changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the level of consumer confidence, consumer spending and consumer debt may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality. our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these factors. risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see market risk in part ii, item 7a below. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 93 equity and debt investments purchased in connection with private equity and other principal investment activities initially are valued at cost to approximate fair value. the carrying value of such investments is adjusted when changes in the underlying fair values are readily ascertainable, generally as evidenced by observable market prices or transactions that directly affect the value of such investments. downward adjustments relating to such investments are made in the event that the company determines that the fair value is less than the carrying value. the company partnership interests, including general partnership and limited partnership interests in real estate funds, are included within other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition and are recorded at fair value based upon changes in the fair value of the underlying partnership net assets. the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. in the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include reviews of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the financial control and market risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. through this margining process, one party or 76 table of contents both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the company recorded fair value for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these otc derivative products. for more information regarding the company risk management practices, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. allowance for consumer loan losses. the allowance for consumer loan losses in the company discover business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. the allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. the allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio and is evaluated quarterly for adequacy. in estimating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. this process starts with a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. the migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact credit losses, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. a provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. the use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see discover provision for consumer loan losses herein). legal, regulatory and tax contingencies. in the normal course of business, the company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. the company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the company business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the company. reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the 77 table of contents company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. the company is subject to the income tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the company has significant business operations. these tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. the company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate. the company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with sfas no. 5. once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change. significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any. see notes 9 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations. special purpose entities. the company enters into a variety of transactions with special purpose entities ( spe ), primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds, credit card loans and other types of financial instruments. in most cases, these spes are deemed to be variable interest entities ( vie ). unless a vie is determined to be a qualifying special purpose entity ( qspe ), the company is required under accounting guidance to perform an analysis of each vie at the date upon which the company becomes involved with it to determine whether the company is the primary beneficiary of the vie, in which case the company must consolidate the vie. qspes are not consolidated. the determination of whether an spe meets the accounting requirements of a qspe requires significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the spe are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the spe are passive and nonexcessive. in addition, the analysis involved in determining whether an entity is a vie, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a vie, also requires significant judgment. certain factors affecting results of operations. the company results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. in addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there continues to be a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. such factors also may have an impact on the company ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. for a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the company business, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. 78 table of contents liquidity and capital resources. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company. through various risk and control committees, the company senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. these committees, along with the company treasury department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the company business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the company liquidity and capital policies. for a description of the company other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. the company liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse franchise or business impact. the key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the company business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. the principal elements of the company liquidity framework are the cash capital policy, the liquidity reserve and stress testing through the contingency funding plan. comprehensive financing guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities and committed credit facilities) support the company target liquidity profile. the balance sheet. the company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. given the nature of the company market-making and customer financing activities, the size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. the company total assets increased to $1,120,645 million at november 30, 2006 from $898,523 million at november 30, 2005. the increase was primarily due to increases in financial instruments owned (largely driven by increases in corporate and other debt and corporate equities), securities borrowed, receivables from customers, and securities received as collateral. the increases were largely the result of an increase in client business opportunities. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. the company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. these low-risk assets generally are attributable to the company matched book and securities lending businesses. adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fin 46r. the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). in addition, the company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. these characteristics include the long-dated nature (e.g., some have final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the company option by a further 19 years, others have a 60-year final maturity at issuance), the company ability to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. the company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities. 79 table of contents the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005: balance at average month-end balance november 30, 2006 november 30, 2005 fiscal 2006(1) fiscal 2005 (dollars in millions, except ratio data) total assets $ 1,120,645 $ 898,523 $ 1,022,113 $ 828,009 less: securities purchased under agreements to resell (174,866 ) (174,330 ) (183,266 ) (147,057 ) securities borrowed (299,631 ) (244,241 ) (274,807 ) (225,984 ) add: financial instruments sold, not yet purchased 183,119 147,000 157,678 130,936 less: derivative contracts sold, not yet purchased (57,491 ) (44,952 ) (47,176 ) (42,192 ) subtotal 771,776 582,000 674,542 543,712 less: segregated customer cash and securities balances (16,782 ) (30,540 ) (29,286 ) (30,483 ) assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fin 46r (100,236 ) (67,091 ) (82,992 ) (56,865 ) goodwill and net intangible assets (3,350 ) (2,500 ) (2,886 ) (2,471 ) adjusted assets $ 651,408 $ 481,869 $ 559,378 $ 453,893 common equity $ 34,264 $ 29,182 $ 31,740 $ 28,501 preferred equity 1,100 423 shareholders equity 35,364 29,182 32,163 28,501 junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts 4,884 2,764 3,875 2,859 subtotal 40,248 31,946 36,038 31,360 less: goodwill and net intangible assets (3,350 ) (2,500 ) (2,886 ) (2,471 ) tangible shareholders equity $ 36,898 $ 29,446 $ 33,152 $ 28,889 leverage ratio(2) 30.4 x 30.5 x 30.8 x 28.7 x adjusted leverage ratio(3) 17.7 x 16.4 x 16.9 x 15.7 x (1) the results for the company and for the institutional securities segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 were adjusted (see other items staff accounting bulletin no. 108 herein). (2) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (3) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. activity in fiscal 2006. the company total capital consists of shareholders equity, long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months), junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts, and capital units. at november 30, 2006, total capital was $162,134 million, an increase of $36,243 million from november 30, 2005. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2006, the company issued senior notes aggregating $49.5 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $21.3 billion and $1,989 million of junior subordinated debentures. in connection with the note issuances, the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2006, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company senior debt indentures) was approximately $158 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). the weighted average maturity of the company long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.5 years at november 30, 2006. subsequent to fiscal year-end and through january 31, 2007, the company long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $11 billion. 80 table of contents subsequent to fiscal year-end, the company and morgan stanley finance plc, a u.k. subsidiary, announced the company intention to redeem all of the outstanding capital units on february 28, 2007. in july 2006, the company issued 44,000,000 depositary shares, in an aggregate of $1,100 million, representing 1/1,000th of a share of floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series a, $0.01 par value ( series a preferred stock ). the series a preferred stock is redeemable at the company option, in whole or in part, on or after july 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per depositary share). the series a preferred stock also has a preference over the company common stock upon liquidation. economic capital. the company uses an economic capital model to determine the amount of equity capital needed to support the risk of its business activities and to ensure that the company remains adequately capitalized. the company calculates economic capital on a going-concern basis, which is defined as the amount of capital needed to run the business through the business cycle and satisfy the requirements of regulators, rating agencies and the market. business unit economic capital allocations are evaluated by benchmarking to similarly rated peer firms by business segment. the company believes this methodology provides an indication of the appropriate level of capital for each business segment as if each were an independent operating entity. economic capital requirements are allocated to each business segment and are sub-allocated to product lines as appropriate. this process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns (such as return on economic capital and shareholder value added) to facilitate resource allocation decisions. the company methodology is based on a going-concern approach that assigns common equity to each business unit based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses, including principal investment risk. regulatory capital, including additional capital assigned for goodwill and intangible assets, is a minimum requirement to ensure the company access to funding and credibility in the market. the company believes it must be able to sustain stress losses and maintain capital substantially above regulatory minimums while supporting ongoing business activities. the difference between the company consolidated book equity and aggregate common equity requirements denotes the company unallocated capital position, which is not currently reflected in business segment performance metrics. the company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. stress losses are defined at the 90% to 95% confidence interval in order to capture worst potential losses in 10 to 20 years. stress loss calculations are tangible and transparent and avoid reliance on extreme loss statistical models. market risk scenarios capture systematic, idiosyncratic and random market risk through the use of internal market stress data. credit risk is included in the form of idiosyncratic counterparty default events. business risk incorporates earnings volatility due to variability in revenue flows, with estimates on the mix of fixed versus variable expenses at various points in the business cycle. operational stress losses primarily reflect legal risk across the company. the company may enhance the economic capital model and allocation methodology over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment to ensure that the model continues to reflect the risks inherent in the company business activities and to reflect changes in the drivers of the level and cost of required capital. 81 table of contents the following table presents the company allocated average common equity ( economic capital ) during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005: fiscal year 2006 2005 average common equity (dollars in billions): institutional securities $ 18.2 $ 14.6 global wealth management group 3.2 3.7 asset management 2.2 1.7 discover 4.9 4.4 total from operating segments 28.5 24.4 discontinued operations 1.2 unallocated capital 3.2 2.9 consolidated $ 31.7 $ 28.5 the increase in economic capital allocated to institutional securities reflects the increased risk profile that has resulted from the company decisions to invest in key businesses. the company expects this growth to continue, provided market opportunities continue to warrant such investments. beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, economic capital will be met by regulatory tier 1 equity (including common shareholders equity, certain preferred stock, eligible hybrid capital instruments and deductions of goodwill and certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets), subject to regulatory limits. the tier 1 equity components will also be reflected in the average common equity allocated to the business segments. this enhancement to the company equity capital model and related disclosures will be made on a prospective basis. the following table presents the company fiscal 2006 fourth quarter average common equity as calculated under the current methodology and under the new methodology commencing in the first quarter of fiscal 2007: current methodology pro forma under new methodology common equity tier 1 equity common equity fiscal 2006 fourth quarter average common equity (dollars in billions) : total from operating segments $ 30.2 $ 27.2 $ 27.7 unallocated capital 3.5 6.0 6.0 consolidated $ 33.7 $ 33.2 $ 33.7 the $2.5 billion of incremental unallocated capital under the pro forma new methodology is due to the inclusion of eligible hybrid capital instruments, which is partially offset by the inclusion of certain deferred tax assets. a portion of the unallocated capital existing as of november 30, 2006 has been used for the acquisitions and investments that closed subsequent to fiscal year-end (see also other items business and other acquisitions and dispositions herein). the company currently anticipates that unallocated capital will be used for organic growth, additional acquisitions and other capital needs, including repurchases of common stock. during fiscal 2007, the company shareholders equity will be affected by the adoption of sfas no. 157 and sfas no. 158 (see other items accounting developments herein). equity capital management policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity capital base adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company inventories, underwritings, principal investments, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, investments in fixed assets and for future uses. capital for future uses will be included within unallocated capital until required by the business segments. the company also considers return 82 table of contents on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. at november 30, 2006, the company equity capital (which includes shareholders equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $40,248 million, an increase of $8,302 million from november 30, 2005. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. during fiscal 2006, the company purchased approximately $3.4 billion of its common stock (approximately 52 million shares) through open market purchases at an average cost of $65.43 (see also market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities in part ii, item 5). in december 2006, the company announced that its board of directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the company outstanding common stock. this share repurchase authorization replaces the company previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. the company expects to exercise the authorization over the next 12-18 months at prices the company deems appropriate, subject to its surplus capital position, market conditions and regulatory considerations. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. in december 2006, the company announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. the company also announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $388.045 per share of series a floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.388045). liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company liquidity and funding activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. given the highly liquid nature of the company balance sheet, day-to-day funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of stable collateralized financing. the company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the treasury department. in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand an unforeseen contraction in credit availability, the company has designed a liquidity management framework. liquidity management framework: designed to: contingency funding plan ascertain the company ability to manage a prolonged liquidity contraction and provide a course of action over a one-year time period to ensure orderly functioning of the businesses. the contingency funding plan sets forth the process and the internal and external communication flows necessary to ensure effective management of the contingency event. analytical processes exist to periodically evaluate and report the liquidity risk exposures of the organization under management-defined scenarios. cash capital ensure that the company can fund its balance sheet while repaying its financial obligations maturing within one year without issuing new unsecured debt. the company attempts to achieve this by maintaining sufficient cash capital (long-term debt and equity capital) to finance illiquid assets and the portion of its securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment. 83 table of contents liquidity management framework: designed to: liquidity reserve maintain, at all times, a liquidity reserve composed of immediately available cash and cash equivalents and a pool of unencumbered securities that can be sold or pledged to provide same-day liquidity to the company. the reserve is periodically assessed and determined based on day-to-day funding requirements and strategic liquidity targets. the liquidity reserve averaged approximately $44 billion during fiscal 2006, of which approximately $36 billion on average was held at the parent company. contingency funding plan. the company contingency funding plan ( cfp ) model incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks. the company cfp is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. the cfp assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. in addition, the cfp assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities. cash capital. the company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. sources of cash capital include the parent company equity and the non-current portion of certain long-term borrowings. uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, equipment, goodwill, net intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment (i.e., stressed haircuts); and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments. the company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. the company equity capital of $40,248 million (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts), long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $121,820 million and capital units of $66 million comprised the company total capital of $162,134 million as of november 30, 2006, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements. liquidity reserve. the company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve that is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets, including coverage of a significant portion of expected cash outflows over a short-term horizon in a potential liquidity crisis. this liquidity reserve is held in the form of cash deposits with banks and a pool of unencumbered securities. the company manages the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, on a global basis, and securities for the pool are chosen accordingly. the u.s. and non-u.s. components, held in the form of a reverse repurchase agreement at the parent company, consists of u.s. and european government bonds and other high-quality collateral and at november 30, 2006 were approximately $41 billion and averaged approximately $26 billion for the year ended november 30, 2006. the parent company cash component of the liquidity reserve at november 30, 2006 was approximately $7 billion and averaged approximately $10 billion for the year ended november 30, 2006. the company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and 84 table of contents efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. the company funding requirements and target liquidity reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors. committed credit facilities. the maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the company funding sources. the company values committed credit as a secondary component of its liquidity management framework. the committed credit facilities include a diversification of lenders to the company covering geographic regions, including north america, europe and asia. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a u.s. dollar tranche with the company as borrower; a japanese yen tranche with morgan stanley japan securities co., ltd. ( msjs ) as borrower and the company as borrower and guarantor for msjs borrowings; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and sterling with the company as borrower. under this combined facility (the credit facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.5 billion under the u.s. dollar tranche, 80 billion japanese yen under the japanese yen tranche and $3.25 billion under the multicurrency tranche. at november 30, 2006, the company had a $16.4 billion consolidated stockholders equity surplus as compared with the credit facility covenant requirement. the company anticipates that it may utilize the credit facility for short-term funding from time to time (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its credit facility will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facility, pay its current level of dividends or obtain loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under the credit facility. the company and its subsidiaries also maintain certain committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. these facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. on a yearly basis, the company committed credit strategy is reviewed and approved by its senior management. this strategy takes the company total liquidity sources into consideration when determining the appropriate size and mix of committed credit. the company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains several funded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including (without limitation), the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses. capital covenant. in october 2006, the company executed a replacement capital covenant in connection with the offering by morgan stanley capital trust vii (the trust ) of $1,100,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.60% trust preferred securities (the capital securities ). under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, the company has agreed, for the benefit of the holders of covered debt, as described below, that it will not, and will cause the trust and its subsidiaries not to, redeem or repurchase any of the capital securities (or the debentures that the company issued to the trust that underlie the capital securities) on or after january 15, 2046 and prior to october 15, 2066, unless (i) the company has obtained any then required regulatory approval and (ii) during a specified 180-day period the company has received net proceeds from the sale of specified replacement capital securities. the initial class of covered debtholders are the holders of the junior subordinated debentures underlying the capital securities of morgan stanley capital trust vi and the holders of such capital securities. for a complete description of the replacement capital securities and the other terms of the replacement capital covenant, see the company current report on form 8-k dated october 12, 2006. 85 table of contents funding management policies. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, euro, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. the company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the u.s., european and asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the u.s. dollar, euro, british pound, australian dollar and japanese yen. the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits obtained from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposit. the company funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the company operations that would result from an interruption in the availability of the company funding sources. the company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short- term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs. secured financing. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowings, while the securitization market allows for the securitization of the credit card receivables arising from the company discover business. the company goal is to maximize funding through less credit sensitive collateralized borrowings and asset securitizations in order to reduce reliance on unsecured financing. the institutional securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. as part of this effort, the institutional securities business continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity. similarly, discover, through its use of the securitization market, reduces the need for other unsecured parent company financing. unsecured financing. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the company discover business) are used to finance the company consumer loan portfolio. consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. the company uses 86 table of contents derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). the company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its cash capital policy. in addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the company liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. the company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. this approach gives the company flexibility to manage the unsecured debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that intercompany borrowings mature before those of the parent company. liquidity and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the company ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company. during fiscal 2006, the company long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. as a result, for fiscal 2006, $39 billion of unsecured debt was issued (excluding certain equity-linked and credit-linked products not considered to be a component of the company cash capital). financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $24 billion. during fiscal 2006, the company also issued an aggregate of $3.1 billion of hybrid and equity capital securities in furtherance of its capital management objectives. this included $1.1 billion of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and $1.1 billion of enhanced trust preferred securities. credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or that otherwise affect its ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the company level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, retention of key personnel, risk profile, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. in addition, continuing consolidation in the credit card industry presents discover with stronger competitors that may challenge future growth. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured funding. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either moody investors service or standard &amp; poor s. at november 30, 2006, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $1,184 million. of this amount, $561 million relates to bilateral 87 table of contents arrangements between the company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. these bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded. as of january 31, 2007, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings(1) f1+ aa- moody investors service p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc. a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor s(2) a-1 a+ (1) on december 19, 2006, fitch ratings changed the outlook on the company senior debt ratings from stable to negative. (2) on october 27, 2006, standard &amp; poor changed the outlook on the company senior debt ratings from stable to positive. off-balance sheet arrangements. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities and discover businesses. institutional securities activities . the company utilizes spes primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the company institutional securities business were approximately $4.8 billion at november 30, 2006, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligation and commercial mortgage loan securitization transactions. for further information about the company institutional securities securitization activities, see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information about variable interest entities and the company arrangements with these entities. the company has entered into liquidity facilities with spes and other counterparties, whereby the company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. the company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the spes in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). discover activities. the asset securitization market is an important source of funding for the company discover business. by utilizing this market, the company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the company other funding sources, including unsecured debt. the securitization transaction structures utilized for the discover business are accounted for as sales; i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with u.s. gaap (see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). in connection with its credit card securitization program, the company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to a trust, which issues asset-backed securities that are registered with the sec, are used to support the issuance of publicly listed notes or are privately placed. this structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions, 88 table of contents potentially resulting in the need for the company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. the primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ( economic early amortization ). economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trust credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. in the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trust from the company would instead continue to be recognized on the company consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trust would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. recognizing these receivables would require the company to obtain alternative funding. guarantees. fasb interpretation no. 45, guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others ( fin 45 ) requires the company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. fin 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. fin 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. the table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at november 30, 2006: maximum potential payout/notional carrying amount collateral/ recourse years to maturity type of guarantee less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 total (dollars in millions) notional amount of derivative contracts $ 688,352 $ 688,882 $ 1,267,757 $ 1,240,811 $ 3,885,802 $ 37,547 $ 119 standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees 2,017 772 552 3,231 6,572 152 1,621 market value guarantees 172 30 628 830 48 133 liquidity facilities 1,692 110 1,802 see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for information on indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees, merchant chargeback guarantees and other guarantees. 89 table of contents contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. in connection with its operating activities, the company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments. in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations at november 30, 2006 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of november 30, 2006 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2007 fiscal 2008-2009 fiscal 2010-2011 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 18,274 $ 45,665 $ 22,719 $ 58,320 $ 144,978 operating leases office facilities(2) 506 913 590 1,852 3,861 operating leases equipment(2) 374 428 145 44 991 purchase obligations(3) 1,736 601 157 24 2,518 total $ 20,890 $ 47,607 $ 23,611 $ 60,240 $ 152,348 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. purchase obligations at november 30, 2006 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. these amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the company consolidated balance sheet. purchase obligations also include amounts related to the acquisitions of saxon, frontpoint and citymortgage (see other items business and other acquisitions and dispositions herein). the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, other financial guarantees, investment activities, and corporate lending and financing commitments as of november 30, 2006 are summarized below by period of expiration. since commitments associated with letters of credit, other financial guarantees, and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: years to maturity total less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) letters of credit and other financial guarantees(1) $ 5,694 $ 66 $ $ $ 5,760 investment activities 636 422 8 213 1,279 investment grade corporate lending commitments(2) 4,023 5,662 17,009 7,612 34,306 non-investment grade corporate lending commitments(2) 1,357 2,881 2,316 11,255 17,809 commitments for secured lending transactions(3) 9,813 5,879 30 166 15,888 commitments to purchase mortgage loans(4) 5,062 5,062 total(5) $ 26,585 $ 14,910 $ 19,363 $ 19,246 $ 80,104 (1) this amount represents the company outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral requirements. this amount also includes commercial loan commitments to small businesses. (2) the company investment grade and non-investment grade primary and secondary lending commitments are made in connection with corporate lending and other business activities. credit ratings for primary commitments are determined by the company institutional credit department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. 90 table of contents (3) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. (4) this amount represents the company forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans. (5) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. the table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $274 billion. such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. these commitments, substantially all of which the company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. at november 30, 2006, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $104 billion and $76 billion, respectively. principal investments. principal investing activities are capital investments in companies, generally for proprietary purposes, to maximize total returns to the company. the company has committed to increasing its principal investing activity. at november 30, 2006, the company had aggregate principal investments with a carrying value of approximately $1.8 billion, which are included within other assets in the consolidated statement of financial condition. the company intends to make additional investments over time to bring the level of principal investments to approximately $2.5 billion. regulatory requirements. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co. ) and morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the nyse and the commodity futures trading commission. morgan stanley &amp; co. international limited ( msil ), a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and msjs, a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. ms&amp;co., msdwi, msil and msjs have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). in fiscal 2007, the company intends to merge msdwi into ms&amp;co. upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, ms&amp;co., will be the company principal u.s. broker-dealer. under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the federal deposit insurance corporation (the fdic ) and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2006, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. 91 table of contents certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc., the company triple-a rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. effective december 1, 2005, the company became a consolidated supervised entity ( cse ) as defined by the sec. as such, the company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the sec and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. as of november 30, 2006, the company was in compliance with the cse capital requirements. ms&amp;co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of appendix e of rule 15c3-1. ms&amp;co. is also required to notify the sec in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. as of november 30, 2006, ms&amp;co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 92 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the company ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market, credit, operational, legal, and liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is protection of the company franchise, reputation and financial standing. the company risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. given the importance of effective risk management to the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the company and business segment level. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification. the nature of the company risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure includes the firm risk committee and the capital structure and strategic transactions committee, the chief risk officer, the internal audit department, independent control groups, and various risk control managers, committees and groups located within the business segments. the firm risk committee, composed of the company most senior officers, oversees the company risk management structure. the firm risk committee responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise risks. the firm risk committee is overseen by the audit committee of the board of directors (the audit committee ). the capital structure and strategic transactions committee (the capital committee ) reviews strategic transactions for the company and significant changes to the company capital structure. the capital committee responsibilities include reviewing measures of capital and evaluating capital resources relative to the company risk profile and strategy. the chief risk officer, a member of the firm risk committee, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves certain excessions of company risk limits; reviews material market and credit risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the audit committee. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the audit committee and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department periodically examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. 93 table of contents the market risk, credit risk, operational risk, financial control, treasury, and legal and compliance departments (collectively, the company control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the firm risk committee in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the firm risk committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. each of the company business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively, segment control groups and, together with the company control groups, the control groups ) to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. the control groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than liquidity and funding risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business where the substantial majority of the company value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within the global wealth management group. asset management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in funds and investments in private equity vehicles. in its consumer lending activities, discover is also exposed to non-trading market risk primarily through changes in interest rates. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries 94 table of contents and maintains the company var system. a variety of limits are designed to control price and liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to, and discussed with, senior management. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during fiscal 2006, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). among the markets in which the company is active and from which activities those exposures arise are the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed corporate debt, investment grade corporate debt, and asset-backed debt. moreover, some of these markets, such as non-investment grade corporate debt, have experienced periods of illiquidity in the past, and may do so in the future. the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions (including positions in non-public entities). the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the company revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. 95 table of contents var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk and interest rate risk, and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2006 . the table below presents the company aggregate (trading and non-trading), trading and non-trading var for each of the company primary market risk exposures at november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely these risks within a var context. aggregate trading and non-trading var also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions and (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the company. investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. aggregate 96 table of contents trading and non-trading var also excludes certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets. as of november 30, 2006, the notional amount of funding liabilities related to non-trading assets (including office facilities and other equipment, goodwill, deferred tax assets, and intangible assets) was approximately $7.9 billion, with a duration of approximately 7.3 years. since the var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days. in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the company changed the confidence level at which var is reported for limit and other management purposes from a 99% confidence level to a 95% confidence level. the company believes that for risk management purposes, the 95% var statistic is a more useful estimator of possible trading losses resulting from adverse daily market moves. the company also believes this change will facilitate comparisons with other companies in the financial services industry. the table below presents 95%/one-day var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005. aggregate (trading and non-trading) trading non-trading table 1: 95% total var 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 41 $ 37 $ 38 $ 34 $ 13 $ 20 equity price 58 29 55 26 5 7 foreign exchange rate 9 6 9 6 commodity price 31 34 31 34 subtotal 139 106 133 100 18 27 less diversification benefit(1) 50 45 48 44 3 4 total var $ 89 $ 61 $ 85 $ 56 $ 15 $ 23 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company aggregate var and trading var at november 30, 2006 were $89 million and $85 million, respectively, compared with $61 million and $56 million, respectively, at november 30, 2005. the increase in aggregate var and trading var at year-end was driven primarily by increased directional exposure to equity products. non-trading var at november 30, 2006 decreased to $15 million from $23 million at november 30, 2005, primarily due to a decrease in non-trading interest rate and credit spread var. the overall increase reflects the company strategy to grow key businesses, such as its principal investing activities, and to take advantage of the opportunities presented by market conditions. the company expects to continue to invest in its businesses and to increase its risk profile, provided market opportunities continue to warrant such growth. the company views average trading var over the fiscal year as more representative of trends in the business than var at any single point in time. table 2 below, which presents the high, low and average 95%/one-day trading var during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, represents substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from these measures (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions). 97 table of contents average trading var for fiscal 2006 increased to $60 million from $57 million in fiscal 2005, reflecting increases in equity price var and commodity price var. the increase in equity price var was predominantly driven by increased directional exposure to equity products. the increase in commodity price var was predominantly driven by increased exposures to energy products (i.e., natural gas and electricity) and oil products (i.e., crude and distillates). table 2: 95% high/low/average trading var daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2006 daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2005 primary market risk category high low average high low average (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 48 $ 29 $ 35 $ 57 $ 27 $ 37 equity price 55 21 28 34 18 25 foreign exchange rate 23 5 9 16 5 8 commodity price 43 23 30 35 19 26 trading var $ 85 $ 49 $ 60 $ 77 $ 38 $ 57 var statistics under varying assumptions. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 3 below presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years versus one year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations: table 3: average 95% and 99% trading var with four-year/one-year historical time series average 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2006 average 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2006 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 35 $ 29 $ 59 $ 44 equity price 28 28 41 41 foreign exchange rate 9 9 14 14 commodity price 30 35 48 69 trading var $ 60 $ 58 $ 92 $ 94 in addition, if the company were to report trading var (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the company 95% and 99% average trading var for fiscal 2006 would have been $188 million and $291 million, respectively. 98 table of contents distribution of var statistics and net revenues for fiscal 2006. as shown in table 2 above, the company average 95%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2006 was $60 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2006. the most frequently occurring value was between $57 million and $60 million, while for approximately 93% of trading days during the fiscal year, var ranged between $51 million and $69 million. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net revenue during fiscal 2006 for the company trading businesses (including net interest and commissions but excluding primary and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). 99 table of contents the company observed a net trading loss of $87 million on one business day during fiscal 2006, which exceeded the 95%/one-day var for that day. consumer lending and related activities. interest rate risk and management . in its consumer lending activities, the company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates. such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as the interest sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including asset-backed securitizations, long-term borrowings and deposits. the company interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the company right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future. to the extent that asset and related financing repricing characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the company may utilize interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements, to achieve its objectives. interest rate swap agreements effectively convert the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from variable to fixed repricing. sensitivity analysis methodology, assumptions and limitations . for its consumer lending activities, the company uses a variety of techniques to assess its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity simulation. for purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from its fiscal year-end, the company assumes that all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period. interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. a portion of the company credit card receivables has a fixed interest rate, although the company has the right, with notice to cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a 100 table of contents new interest rate. therefore, the company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to be interest rate sensitive. the company measured the earnings sensitivity for these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration the required notice period and billing cycles. in addition, assets that have a market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. the latter category includes certain credit card loans that may be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will contractually reprice in accordance with the company normal market-based pricing structure. for purposes of measuring rate sensitivity for such loans, only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. for assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. in addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets, earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses. interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as fed funds or libor rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period, or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate sensitive. for these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the expected repricing date. assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2006, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by approximately $125 million. the comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the 12-month period following november 30, 2005 was estimated to be approximately $36 million. the increase in the reduction in pre-tax income at november 30, 2006 was due to a higher level of variable rate funding. the hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next 12-month period. it does not assume any growth, strategic change in business focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding mix. thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately portray how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate changes were to occur. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor is unable to meet its financial obligations. the company is exposed to three distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. the company incurs significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business. this type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. the company incurs individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business through margin loans to individual investors, which are generally collateralized, and loans to small businesses. the company incurs consumer portfolio credit risk in the discover business primarily through cardholder receivables. credit risk in a pool of credit card receivables is generally highly diversified, without significant individual exposures, and, accordingly, is managed on a portfolio and not a single-name basis. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed discretely. the institutional credit department ( institutional credit ) manages credit risk exposure for the institutional securities business. institutional credit 101 table of contents is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure in the global wealth management group business is managed through various credit risk committees, whose membership includes institutional credit. the global wealth management group risk management department is responsible for monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. credit risk exposure in the discover business is managed through the discover credit and market risk committee, which, in turn, is supported by business line specific risk committees and the credit risk management department, which is responsible for the development, validation and implementation of credit policy criteria, for predictive models, for the monitoring of performance for both new and existing products, and for oversight of adherence to existing policies and limits. institutional securities activities. corporate lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the company. the borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. credit risk with respect to loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement. commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, or may be cancelled or reduced at the request of the counterparty, and, therefore, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements. in addition, commitments associated with acquisition financing activities are generally contingent on the completion of the underlying transaction as well as upon various terms and conditions, and also can be short-term in nature, as borrowers often replace them with other funding sources. securitized products. the company also extends loans and lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value. other. in addition to the activities performed by institutional credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within institutional securities. for example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. certain risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale, and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, 102 table of contents or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities, or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. in order to help protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, institutional credit analyzes all material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. institutional credit assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers. these credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or below are considered non-investment grade. additionally, for lending transactions, institutional credit evaluates the relative position of the company particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. the company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties. institutional credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements may provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure-corporate lending. at november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005, the aggregate value of primary investment grade loans and financial accommodations was $6.4 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of primary non-investment grade loans and positions was $3.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005, the aggregate value of primary lending commitments outstanding was $49.2 billion and $37.0 billion, respectively. the increase from the prior year was primarily related to acquisition financing activity. in connection with these business activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $26.5 billion and $17.8 billion at november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005, respectively, including both internal and external hedges utilized by the lending business. the table below shows the company credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and commitments as of november 30, 2006. since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: corporate lending commitments and funded loans years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate loans credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 251 $ 120 $ 268 $ $ 639 $ aa 1,452 1,797 2,364 931 6,544 785 a 1,151 2,497 5,886 1,241 10,775 387 bbb 2,246 4,068 9,579 4,780 20,673 5,209 non-investment grade 1,942 3,020 2,851 12,572 20,385 3,414 total $ 7,042 $ 11,502 $ 20,948 $ 19,524 $ 59,016 $ 9,795 notional amount of hedges owned $ 26,545 103 table of contents (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total corporate lending exposure includes both primary lending commitments and funded loans. credit exposure-derivatives. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2006. fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements, where applicable, and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 1,545 $ 1,229 $ 977 $ 2,517 $ (1,675 ) $ 4,593 $ 4,457 aa 7,933 3,864 5,048 13,379 (16,384 ) 13,840 13,134 a 3,669 2,955 2,645 7,917 (8,572 ) 8,614 7,581 bbb 2,903 2,747 3,085 2,029 (3,363 ) 7,401 5,559 non-investment grade 3,252 1,670 2,385 2,379 (3,362 ) 6,324 3,152 unrated(4) 1,300 649 273 381 (486 ) 2,117 212 total $ 20,602 $ 13,114 $ 14,413 $ 28,602 $ (33,842 ) $ 42,889 $ 34,095 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the creditworthiness of unrated companies, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. in making this determination, the company takes into account various factors, including legal uncertainties and market volatility. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2006, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 3,804 $ 5,402 $ 8,882 $ 26,351 $ (25,072 ) $ 19,367 $ 16,414 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,333 679 147 23 (869 ) 7,313 5,842 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 4,604 1,924 999 179 (2,890 ) 4,816 2,594 commodity forwards, options and swaps 4,861 5,109 4,385 2,049 (5,011 ) 11,393 9,245 total $ 20,602 $ 13,114 $ 14,413 $ 28,602 $ (33,842 ) $ 42,889 $ 34,095 104 table of contents (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 4,947 $ 5,606 $ 6,953 $ 18,014 $ (19,946 ) $ 15,574 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 8,014 551 89 37 (967 ) 7,724 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 2,823 3,028 1,697 694 (1,329 ) 6,913 commodity forwards, options and swaps 5,888 6,214 2,220 1,695 (5,831 ) 10,186 total $ 21,672 $ 15,399 $ 10,959 $ 20,440 $ (28,073 ) $ 40,397 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the company derivatives (both listed and otc) at november 30, 2006 and november 30, 2005 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product: at november 30, 2006 at november 30, 2005 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 19,444 $ 15,688 $ 17,157 $ 13,212 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,325 7,725 7,548 7,597 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 16,705 23,155 7,290 11,957 commodity forwards, options and swaps 11,969 10,923 13,899 12,186 total $ 55,443 $ 57,491 $ 45,894 $ 44,952 each category of otc derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the fair values recorded in the above tables are determined by the company using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. as discussed under critical accounting policies, the structure of the transaction, including its maturity, is one of several important factors that may impact the price transparency. the impact of maturity on price transparency can differ significantly among product categories. for example, single currency and multi-currency interest rate derivative products involving highly standardized terms and the major currencies (e.g., the u.s. dollar or the euro) will generally have greater price transparency 105 table of contents from published external sources even in maturity ranges beyond 20 years. credit derivatives with highly standardized terms and liquid underlying reference instruments can have price transparency from published external sources in a maturity ranging up to 10 years, while equity and foreign exchange derivative products with standardized terms in major currencies can have price transparency from published external sources within a two-year maturity range. commodity derivatives with standardized terms and delivery locations can have price transparency from published external sources within various maturity ranges up to 10 years, depending on the commodity. in most instances of limited price transparency based on published external sources, dealers in these markets, in their capacities as market-makers and liquidity providers, provide price transparency beyond the above maturity ranges. country exposure. the company monitors its credit exposure and risk to individual countries. credit exposure to a country arises from the company lending activities and derivatives activities in a country. at november 30, 2006, approximately 5% of the company total credit exposure (including primary corporate loans and lending commitments and current exposure arising from the company derivative contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 0.6% of the company total credit exposure. country credit ratings are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. industry exposure. the company also monitors its credit exposure and risk to individual industries. at november 30, 2006, the company material credit exposure (including primary corporate loans and lending commitments and current exposure arising from the company derivative contracts) was to entities engaged in the following industries: utilities, sovereign-related entities, financial institutions, media, consumer-related entities and healthcare. global wealth management group activities. margin lending. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of all margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. additionally, all transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. at november 30, 2006, there were approximately $6.8 billion of customer margin loans outstanding. commercial lending. global wealth management group provides commercial lending to small and medium-size domestic businesses through morgan stanley commercial financial services, inc. ( cfs ). cfs suite of products include working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgages. clients are required to submit a comprehensive credit application, including financial statements, to cfs centralized credit processing platform. once the information is received by cfs experienced underwriting professionals, a comprehensive analysis is performed to assess the business model and to determine appropriate structure, guarantors strengths, debt and cash flow capacity, liquidity and collateral coverage. for standard transactions, credit requests are approved via signature of independent credit officers, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by independent credit professionals. the facility is risk rated and upon credit approval is moved to the general portfolio where it is monitored periodically through account management, covenants compliance certificates, and spot and cycle audits. 106 table of contents consumer lending activities. with respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit cardholders undergo credit reviews by the credit department of discover financial services to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. credit card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. the company credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models using the company criteria and historical data. each cardmember credit line is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may include raising or lowering a cardmember credit line or closing the account. in addition, the company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. the company also reviews the creditworthiness of prospective discover network merchants and conducts annual reviews of merchants, with the greatest scrutiny given to merchants with substantial sales volume, chargeback, return and discount volumes. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages within the company institutional securities business segment, including home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. as part of the mortgage lending business strategy, almost all loans are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and whole loan sales, while almost all servicing rights are retained. these sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor. for further information on the company consumer loans, see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources and systems or from external events (e.g. external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). the company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g. sales and trading) and support functions (e.g. information technology and facilities management). as such, the company may incur operational risk in each of its businesses, as well as within the control groups. legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. the goal of the company operational risk management framework is to establish firm-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. operational risk policies are designed to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the company operational risk manager ( orm ) oversees, monitors, measures and analyzes operational risk across the company. the orm is also responsible for facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the firm-wide operational risk program. the orm is independent of the business segments and is supported by the firm-wide operational risk department ( ord ). the ord works with the business segments, control groups and other support functions to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the company. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments and the control groups, and the business managers therein. the business managers generally maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. as new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. in addition, business segment risk committees review operational risk matters and/or reports on a regular basis. each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior 107 table of contents management. oversight of business segment operational risk is provided by business segment risk committees, a firmwide operational risk committee and ultimately senior management through the firm risk committee. business continuity planning is an ongoing program of analysis and planning which ensures a recovery strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business segment recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing. the company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. information security procedures are designed to protect the company information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. these procedures cover a broad range of areas including: application system entitlement; data protection; internet and intranet access, communications and usage; and, mobile and portable information usage. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. the company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the legal and compliance division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 108 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors. liquidity risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that morgan stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of morgan stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 below. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of our credit ratings or otherwise affect our ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the level and volatility of our earnings; our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate; our geographic and product diversification; our ability to retain key personnel; our risk profile; our risk management policies; our cash liquidity; our capital adequacy; our corporate lending credit risk; and legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of these factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings, thereby increasing our cost of obtaining unsecured funding. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. 13 table of contents if our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing. our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. if our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate or we do not adhere to the policies, we may be unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. the amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business segment. we may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions . the company recorded $9.4 billion in mortgage-related writedowns in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, including $7.8 billion relating to our u.s. subprime trading positions and $1.6 billion relating to other mortgage-related products, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities, alt-a and other loans, conduit and non-performing loans and european non-conforming loans, and an impairment charge related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in our domestic subsidiary banks. we continue to have exposure to these markets and products and as market conditions continue to evolve the fair value of these mortgage-related instruments could further deteriorate. in addition, recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our 14 table of contents securities. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. the results for fiscal 2007 included other losses primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007. these included losses reflecting mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies. the company leveraged finance business originates and distributes loans and commitments, and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this may take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity reentering the market and additional writedowns of these loans and commitments may occur. the valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. other areas of our business which to date have not been adversely affected by the illiquidity in our mortgage and lending businesses could be adversely affected if the current conditions in the credit market spread to other sectors. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in us taking large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. moreover, the trend in all major capital markets is towards larger and more frequent commitments of capital in many of these activities, and we expect this trend to continue. markets may experience periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity, such as the asset price deterioration in the u.s. subprime residential mortgage market. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. morgan stanley risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and morgan stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, as illustrated by recent results in our subprime mortgage-related proprietary trading. we may incur significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. we also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate sector. 15 table of contents credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various credit arrangements. we incur individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities. the amount, duration and range of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. in recent years, we have significantly expanded our use of swaps and other derivatives and we may continue to do so. corporate clients are increasingly seeking loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. in addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, increased pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to provide swaps and lending commitments to counterparties and borrowers with lower credit quality, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivatives instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect morgan stanley. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from external events (e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). morgan stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and facilities management). as such, morgan stanley may incur operational risk in each of its businesses, as well as within the control groups. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk and an operational event could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial 16 table of contents intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by morgan stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal risk. legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see legal risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. we are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. we are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm to us, or harm our business prospects. new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see regulation in part i, item 1 herein. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, 17 table of contents lng and related products and indices. in addition, we own five electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and europe; transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and the heidmar group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations. for example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for example, the eu has increased its focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. potential conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. our reputation is one of our most important assets. as we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. for example, conflicts may arise between our position as a financial advisor in a merger transaction and a principal investment we hold in one of the parties to the transaction. in addition, hedge funds and private equity funds are an increasingly important portion of our client base, and also compete with us in a number of our businesses. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address various conflicts of interest. however, identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest can be complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, the sec and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. it is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, which will adversely affect our businesses. competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we 18 table of contents compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. this convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see competition in part i, item 1 herein. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes with performance. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic stock markets will likely continue. it is possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. we have expanded, and continue to look at opportunities to expand, in the emerging markets. various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. 19 table of contents acquisition risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. we expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. to the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations or joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. there is no assurance that our recent acquisitions or any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate ( e.g. , recent events in the u.s. subprime residential mortgage market). management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 for further discussion regarding the company involvement with other u.s. subprime-related activities, see special purpose entities and variable interest entities and other exposures to subprime lenders. the results for fiscal 2007 also included losses of approximately $700 million primarily recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies. the losses included markdowns of leveraged loan commitments associated with acquisition financing transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. these losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007. the valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. in addition, the company leveraged finance business originates and distributes loans and commitments, and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this could take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity re-entering the market. subsequent to november 30, 2007, there has been further widening in credit spreads for non-investment grade loans that, if sustained, will result in additional writedowns for these loans and commitments. for further information about the company corporate lending activities, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk. the company also recognized losses of $129 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 related to structured investment vehicles (see structured investment vehicles herein). u.s. subprime mortgage-related exposures. the company u.s. subprime mortgage-related trading positions consist of those related to u.s. abs cdos and other mortgage-related exposures arising from investments in subprime loans, from asset-backed securities 51 table of contents that, in whole or in part, are backed by subprime mortgage loans, and from derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities. subprime mortgages are loans secured by real property made to a borrower (or borrowers) with a diminished or impaired credit rating or with a limited credit history. a borrower credit history is reflected in his credit report and routinely converted into a numerical credit score often referred to as a fair isaac corporation (or fico ) score. generally, a loan made to a borrower with a low fico score or other credit score has historically been considered as subprime. loans to borrowers with higher fico scores may be subprime if the loan exhibits other high-risk factors. such risk factors may include loans where: (a) the loan has a high loan-to-value ratio or combined loan-to-value ratios; (b) the borrower has reduced or limited income documentation; (c) the borrower has a high debt-to-income ratio; (d) the occupancy type for the loan is other than the borrower primary residence. there are many other risk factors, including borrowers who have purchased multiple properties or have taken previous equity withdrawal (cash out) refinancings within the last 12 to 24 month period, non-arm length purchase transactions and unsupported or high-risk collateral properties, among others. subprime mortgage-related securities are those securities that derive a significant portion of their value from subprime loans. u.s. abs cdo exposures . the company purchases interests in and enters into derivatives with abs cdos. cdos provide credit risk exposure to a portfolio of asset-backed securities ( cash cdos ) or a reference portfolio of securities ( synthetic cdos ). the underlying or reference portfolios consist primarily of residential mortgage-backed securities. the cdos to which the company has exposure are primarily structured and underwritten by third parties, although the company also structures and underwrites cdos, for which it receives structuring and/or distribution fees, and does from time to time retain interests in such cdos. the company primary exposure to abs cdos is to synthetic cdos that hold or are referenced to collateral with ratings of bbb+, bbb or bbb- ( mezzanine cdos ). the majority of the company writedowns in the fourth quarter related to super senior credit default swaps referencing such mezzanine cdos that were entered into primarily by the company proprietary trading group. under these credit default swap arrangements, the company can be required to make payments in the event that securities in the referenced portfolios default or experience other credit events such as rating agency downgrades. (the characterization of these credit default swaps as super senior derives from their seniority in the capital structure of the synthetic cdo.) the company also has exposure to abs cdos via other types of credit default swaps, direct investments in cdo securities, and retained interests in cdos that the company has underwritten. in determining the fair value of the company abs cdo-related instruments the company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. despite the fact that actual defaults on swap obligations have not yet been realized, the fair value of such positions has experienced significant declines, as a result of a deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments. these losses, as well as the company net cdo exposures, are quantified in the u.s. subprime-related exposures table below. other u.s. subprime mortgage-related exposures. the company also has exposure to the u.s. subprime mortgage market via investments in subprime mortgage loans and abs that are backed in whole or in part by subprime mortgage loans and via derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities. with respect to whole loans, the company purchases pools of mortgage loans from third-party originators and also originates mortgage loans through its retail, wholesale and conduit channels and typically disposes of such loans by securitizing them. the company typically retains certain lower-rated securities of such securitizations, often referred to as residual tranche securities. the company other subprime mortgage-related trading exposures are quantified in the table below. the company interests in u.s. subprime-related exposures are carried at fair value with changes recognized in earnings. 52 table of contents the following table provides a summary of the company direct u.s. subprime trading exposures (excluding amounts related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the company domestic subsidiary banks (see subsidiary banks herein)) as of and for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2007. the company utilizes various methods of evaluating risk in its trading and other portfolios, including monitoring net exposure. net exposure is defined as potential loss to the company over a period of time in an event of 100% default of the referenced loan, assuming zero recovery. the value of these positions remains subject to mark-to-market volatility. positive net exposure amounts indicate potential loss (long position) in a default scenario. negative net exposure amounts indicate potential gain (short position) in a default scenario. net exposure does not take into consideration the risk of counterparty default. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in part ii, item 7a for a further description of how credit risk is monitored. actual losses could exceed the amount of net exposure. statement of financial condition 11/30/07(1) november 30, 2007 net exposure 11/30/07 profit and (loss) three months ended profit and (loss) 12 months ended (dollars in billions) super senior derivative exposure: mezzanine $ (8.7 ) $ (7.1 ) $ (9.3 ) $ 3.9 cdo squared(3) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) 0.1 total abs cdo super senior derivative exposure $ (8.8 ) $ (7.2 ) $ (9.4 ) $ 4.0 other cdo exposure: abs cdo cds $ 2.7 $ 1.3 $ 2.3 $ (1.5 ) abs cdo bonds 1.1 (0.5 ) (0.8 ) 1.1 total other cdo exposure $ 3.8 0.8 1.5 (0.4 ) subtotal abs cdo-related exposure(2) $ (5.0 ) $ (6.4 ) $ (7.9 ) $ 3.6 u.s. subprime mortgage-related exposure: loans $ 0.6 $ (0.1 ) $ (0.2 ) $ 0.6 total rate-of-return swaps 0.1 abs bonds 2.7 (2.9 ) (3.8 ) 2.7 abs cds 7.8 1.6 5.0 (5.1 ) subtotal u.s. subprime mortgage-related exposure $ 11.1 $ (1.4 ) $ 1.1 $ (1.8 ) total u.s. subprime trading exposure $ 6.1 $ (7.8 ) $ (6.8 ) $ 1.8 (1) statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. in addition, these amounts reflect counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are subprime-related; they do not reflect any counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are not subprime related. the $6.1 billion is reflected in the company consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: financial instruments owned of $15.3 billion and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $9.2 billion. (2) in determining the fair value of the company abs super senior cdo-related exposures the company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments have led to significant declines in the estimates of fair value. these declines reflected increased implied losses across this portfolio. these implied loss levels are consistent with losses in the range between 13% 20% implied by the abx indices. these cumulative loss levels, at a severity rate of 50%, imply defaults in the range of 43% 50% for 2005 and 2006 outstanding mortgages. (3) refers to cdos where the collateral is comprised entirely of another cdo security. 53 table of contents subsidiary banks. the securities portfolios of morgan stanley bank (utah) and morgan stanley trust fsb (collectively, the subsidiary banks ) include certain subprime-related securities. the portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or cdos. at november 30, 2007, the securities portfolios totaled $9.9 billion consisting primarily of aaa-rated abs and residential mortgage-backed securities. of the total amount, $5.5 billion were subprime mortgage-related securities. the securities in the subsidiary domestic banks portfolios were previously classified as securities available for sale in accordance with sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities ( sfas no. 115 ). in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the company determined that it no longer intends to hold these securities until the fair value of the securities recovers to a level that exceeds their initial cost. accordingly, the company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in principal transactions-trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income on its portfolio of securities available for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified the portfolios to financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition effective november 30, 2007. special purpose entities and variable interest entities. the company involvement with special purpose entities ( spes ) and variable interest entities ( vies ) is discussed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements and critical accounting policies special purpose entities herein. in relation to subprime loans and subprime-backed securities, the company involvement with spes/vies consists primarily of the following: engaging in securitization activities related to subprime loans and subprime-backed securities; acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles; transferring whole loans into spes/vies; holding one or more classes of securities issued by such securitization vehicles (including residual tranche securities) and possibly entering into derivative agreements with such securitization vehicles; purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) subprime-backed securities issued by spes/vies, whether such vehicles are sponsored by the company or not; entering into derivative transactions with spes/vies (not sponsored by the company) that hold subprime-related assets; providing warehouse financing to cdos and collateralized loan obligations ( clos ); entering into derivative agreements with non-spe/vies, whose value is derived from securities issued by spes/vies; servicing assets held by spes/vies or holding servicing rights related to assets held by spes/vies that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements; serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by subprime loans. other exposures to subprime lenders. the company provides warehouse financing to entities collateralized by residential mortgage loans. under these lines of credit arrangements, the company requires those entities to provide collateral in excess of the monies advanced. the company values the collateral on a regular basis to ensure that the value of the collateral exceeds the value of the monies advanced in accordance with the collateral agreements. the company does not carry amounts lent under such arrangements at fair value but instead carries such amounts at amortized cost. in 54 table of contents addition, the company does not fair value its commitments under such arrangements. the company evaluates its exposure and any potential impairment under such arrangements, whether funded or committed, in accordance with sfas no. 5, accounting for contingencies ( sfas no. 5 ). in addition, the company had entered into derivative and lending arrangements with a third-party-sponsored commercial paper conduit that provides warehouse financing to subprime lenders, where such derivative and lending arrangements are linked to the performance of the conduit loans to the subprime lenders. at november 30, 2007, exposure related to these arrangements was approximately $300 million. these arrangements were satisfactorily settled and terminated in december 2007. the company had no further subprime-related commitments to the third-party-sponsored commercial paper conduit as of november 30, 2007. the company does not sponsor any commercial paper conduits. structured investment vehicles. structured investment vehicles ( sivs ) are unconsolidated entities that issue various capital notes and debt instruments to fund the purchase of assets. while the company does not sponsor or serve as asset manager to any unconsolidated sivs, the company does serve as investment advisor to certain unconsolidated money market funds ( the funds ) that have investments in securities issued by sivs. in 2007, widespread illiquidity in the commercial paper market led to market value declines and rating agency downgrades of many securities issued by sivs, some of which were held by the funds. as a result, the company purchased approximately $900 million of such securities from the funds during the year at amortized cost, which resulted in losses to the company of $129 million. the carrying value of the purchased securities still held by the company as of november 30, 2007 was $543 million. such positions are reflected at fair value, and presented in financial instruments owned corporate and other debt in the consolidated statement of financial condition. subsequent to november 30, 2007, the company purchased approximately $160 million of additional securities from the funds and recorded losses of approximately $40 million on these securities. the company was not obligated to purchase any of these securities and has no obligation to purchase any additional securities from the funds in the future. the funds continue to have investment in securities issued by sivs, with an aggregate face value of $8.2 billion as of november 30, 2007 ($5.4 billion as of january 18, 2008.) these securities have been issued by sivs that are predominately bank-sponsored, and meet the requirements and investment criteria to continue to be held by the funds. monoline insurers. monoline insurers ( monolines ) provide credit enhancement to capital markets transactions. the current credit environment severely affected the capacity of such financial guarantors. the company exposure to monolines is limited to bonds that are insured by monolines and as counterparties to derivative contracts. the aggregate direct exposure to monolines at november 30, 2007 was $3.7 billion primarily including abs bonds of $1.5 billion in the subsidiary banks portfolio (see subsidiary banks ) that are collateralized by first and second lien subprime mortgages enhanced by financial guarantees, $1.3 billion in insurance municipal bond securities and $800 million in net counterparty exposure. 55 table of contents other matters. the following matters are discussed in the company notes to the consolidated financial statements. for further information on these matters, please see the applicable note: note accounting developments : limited partnerships 2 accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments 2 accounting for servicing of financial assets 2 accounting for uncertainty in income taxes 2 fair value measurements 2 employee benefit plans 2 fair value option 2 offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts 2 investment company accounting 2 dividends on share-based payment awards 2 business combinations 2 noncontrolling interests 2 tax matters 20 discontinued operations 22 business and other acquisitions and dispositions and sale of minority interest 23 staff accounting bulletin no. 108 24 insurance settlement 25 lease adjustment 26 stock-based compensation. the company early adopted sfas no. 123r, share-based payment ( sfas no. 123r ) using the modified prospective approach as of december 1, 2004. for further information on sfas no. 123r, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to sfas no. 123r in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated fiscal 2006 year-end equity awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. effective december 1, 2005, the company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant. as a result, fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs: amortization of fiscal 2003 year-end awards; amortization of fiscal 2004 year-end awards; amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; the full cost of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in december 2005); and the full cost of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in december 2006). fiscal 2007 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs: amortization of fiscal 2004 year-end awards; amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and the full cost of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in december 2007). 56 table of contents fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 year-end awards are generally amortized over three and four years, while fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 year-end awards are generally amortized over two and three years. senior management compensation charges. compensation and benefits expense in fiscal 2005 included charges for certain members of senior management related to severance and new hires, which increased non-interest expenses by approximately $282 million. these compensation charges were allocated to the company business segments as follows: institutional securities ($193 million), global wealth management group ($48 million) and asset management ($41 million). coleman litigation. in may 2003, coleman (parent) holdings inc. ( cph ) filed a complaint against morgan stanley in the circuit court of the fifteenth judicial circuit for palm beach county, florida relating to the 1998 merger between the coleman company, inc. and sunbeam, inc. in june 2005, the trial court issued a final judgment in favor of cph in the amount of $1,578 million, which included prejudgment interest and excluded certain payments received by cph in settlement of related claims against others. in june 2005, morgan stanley filed a notice of appeal with the district court of appeal for the fourth district of florida (the court of appeal ) and posted a supersedeas bond, which automatically stayed execution of the judgment pending appeal. in march 2007, the court of appeal issued an opinion reversing the trial court award for compensatory and punitive damages and remanding the matter to the trial court for entry of judgment for morgan stanley. in june 2007, the court of appeal opinion became final when the court of appeal issued an order denying cph motions for rehearing, rehearing en banc and for certification of certain questions for review by the florida supreme court (the supreme court ). in june 2007, the trial court issued an order cancelling the supersedeas bond that morgan stanley had posted. in july 2007, cph filed a petition with the supreme court asking that court to review the court of appeal decision ( petition for review ). on december 12, 2007, the supreme court issued an order denying cph petition for review. the company believes, after consultation with outside counsel, that the supreme court decision to deny the petition for review has effectively ended cph civil claim against the company. effective november 30, 2007, the company reversed the $360 million reserve previously established for the coleman litigation under sfas no. 5. defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. contributions. the company made contributions of $131 million and $84 million (excluding $30 million in fiscal 2006 relating to dfs and quilter) to its u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. these contributions were funded with cash from operations. the company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. the company policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations (for example in the u.s., the minimum required contribution under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, or erisa ). at november 30, 2007, there were no minimum required erisa contributions for the company u.s. pension plan that is qualified under section 401(a) of the internal revenue code (the u.s. qualified plan ). liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries. expense. in accordance with u.s. gaap, the company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee estimated service period. this process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. 57 table of contents the assumed discount rate, which is intended to reflect the rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled, is used to measure the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and to calculate the service cost and interest cost. for fiscal 2007, the assumed discount rate for all u.s. plans was selected by the company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the u.s. qualified plan liabilities. the pension discount yield curve represents spot discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad based aa corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. it includes only bonds of reasonable issue size and excludes certain types of bonds, such as callable bonds. as of november 30, 2007, the company u.s. qualified plan represented 82% of the total liabilities of its u.s. pension and postretirement plans combined. the assumed discount rate for the defined benefit portion of its u.k. pension plan was selected by the company using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the u.k. defined benefit pension liabilities. as of november 30, 2007, the defined benefit portion of the company u.k. pension plan represented 59% of the total liabilities of its non-u.s. pension plans combined. for all other non-u.s. pension plans, the company set the assumed discount rates based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices. the expected long-term rate of return on assets represents the company best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and generally was estimated by adjusting the previous year rate by the difference in the weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based on the target asset allocations, taking into consideration estimated expenses and the benefits of diversification and rebalancing the portfolio. this rate is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions. as of november 30, 2007, the company u.s. qualified plan represented 90% of the total assets of its u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans combined. the company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the expected long-term rate of return on its u.s. qualified plan assets would remain at 6.75% for fiscal 2007 (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). there was no significant change in the fees paid by the plan or the underlying market outlook since september 2006. to better align the duration of plan assets with the duration of plan liabilities, in may 2007, the u.s. qualified plan target asset allocation policy was changed from 45%/55% equity/fixed income to 30%/70% equity/fixed income. the effects of this change will be reflected in fiscal 2008, and the impact is not expected to be material to the company consolidated results of operations. the preliminary expected long-term rate of return on u.s. qualified plan assets is 6.50% for fiscal 2008. the company expected long-term rate of return on assets for its u.s. qualified plan was based on the following target asset allocation: target investment mix expected annual return(1) domestic equity: large capitalization 12 % 8.1 % small capitalization 3 % 8.4 % international equity 15 % 8.4 % fixed income: long-term government/corporate 70 % 5.4 % (1) these returns do not include the impact of diversification on the overall expected portfolio return. each year, the company compares its initial estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on assets for the u.s. qualified plan (and adjusts, if necessary) with a portfolio return calculator model (the portfolio model ) that produces a range of expected returns for the portfolio. return assumptions used are forward-looking gross returns that are not developed solely by an examination of historical returns. the portfolio model begins with the current u.s. treasury yield curve, recognizing that expected returns on bonds are heavily influenced by the current level of yields. corporate bond spreads and equity risk premiums, based on current market conditions, are 58 table of contents then added to develop the return expectations for each asset class. the resulting expected portfolio investment is then adjusted downward to reflect an assumed load for expenses, which include investment and transaction fees that typically are paid from plan assets, added to the cost basis or subtracted from sale proceeds, as well as administrative expenses paid from plan assets. the company uses the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets to compute the expected return on assets component of pension expense. for the u.s. qualified plan, expected returns are computed based on a market-related value of assets. the market-related value of assets is a smoothed actuarial value of assets equal to a moving average of market values in which investment income is recognized over a five-year period. the market-related value of assets must be no greater than 120% and no less than 80% of the market value of assets. investment income equal to the expected return on the plan assets as calculated for the prior year expense is recognized immediately. any difference between the actual investment income (on a market-value basis) and the expected return is recognized over a five-year period in accordance with sfas no. 87, employers accounting for pensions ( sfas no. 87 ). other assumptions, including mortality rates, long-term salary growth and employee turnover rates, are set by the company in consultation with its independent actuaries. these assumptions are tested every year by monitoring gains and losses, performing assumption studies as needed, and monitoring company objectives and actuarial trends. these assumptions are adjusted whenever necessary. the company amortizes (as a component of pension expense) unrecognized net gains and losses over the average future service of active participants (5 to 20 years depending upon the plan) to the extent that the gain/loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. the loss amortization component for the u.s. and the non-u.s. pension plans was $41 million for fiscal 2007 (28% of pension expense) and $51 million for fiscal 2006 (32% of pension expense). impact of sfas no. 158. in september 2006, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106, and 132(r) ( sfas no. 158 ). among other items, sfas no. 158 required recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of the company defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending november 30, 2007. the company recorded an after-tax charge of $208 million ($347 million pre-tax) to shareholders equity upon the adoption of this requirement. sfas no. 158 also requires the measurement of defined benefit and postretirement plan assets and obligations as of the end of the fiscal year. sfas no. 158 requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date is effective for fiscal years ending after december 15, 2008. the company expects to early adopt a fiscal year-end measurement date for its fiscal year ending november 30, 2008 and currently expects to record an after-tax charge of approximately $15 million to shareholders equity upon adoption. 59 table of contents critical accounting policies. the company consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap, which requires the company to make estimates and assumptions (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). the company believes that of its accounting policies (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. fair value. financial instruments measured at fair value. a significant number of the company financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. the company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. these assets and liabilities include: financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased; securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received as collateral; certain commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes; certain deposits; other secured financings; and certain long-term borrowings, primarily structured debt. fair value measurement definition and hierarch y. the company adopted the provisions of sfas no. 157, effective december 1, 2006. sfas no. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. in determining fair value, the company uses various valuation approaches, including market, income and/or cost approaches. sfas no. 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the company. unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the company assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. the hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the reliability of inputs as follows: level 1 valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the company has the ability to access. valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to level 1 instruments. since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant degree of judgment. assets and liabilities utilizing level 1 inputs include exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are actively traded, most u.s. government securities and certain other sovereign government obligations. level 2 valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, directly or indirectly. assets and liabilities utilizing level 2 inputs include: exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are not actively traded; most otc derivatives; restricted stock; corporate and municipal bonds; certain corporate loans and loan commitments; certain high-yield debt; certain residential and commercial mortgage loans; certain mortgage-backed securities ( mbs ), asset-backed securities ( abs ), and cdo securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; structured notes; physical commodities; and mortgage servicing rights. 60 table of contents level 3 valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. assets and liabilities utilizing level 3 inputs include: certain corporate loans and loan commitments; certain commercial whole loans; certain mortgage loans; certain high-yield debt; distressed debt (i.e., securities of issuers encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy or insolvency); certain mbs, abs and cdo securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; investments in real estate funds; private equity investments; and complex over-the-counter derivatives (including certain foreign currency options; long-dated commodity options and swaps; certain mortgage-related credit default swaps; derivative interests in mortgage-related cdos; and basket credit default swaps). the availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics particular to the transaction. to the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the company in determining fair value is greatest for instruments categorized in level 3. in certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. in such cases, for disclosure purposes the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant who holds the asset or owes the liability rather than an entity-specific measure. therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the company own assumptions are set to reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. the company uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. in periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. this condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from level 1 to level 2 or level 2 to level 3. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the company financial assets and liabilities that are accounted for at fair value. valuation techniques . many cash and otc contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. bid prices reflect the highest price that the company and others are willing to pay for an asset. ask prices represent the lowest price that the company and others are willing to accept for an asset. for financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices, the company does not require that fair value always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask range. the company policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the company best estimate of fair value. for offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions. fair value for many cash and otc contracts is derived using pricing models. pricing models take into account the contract terms (including maturity) as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty, option volatility and currency rates. in accordance with sfas no. 157, the impact of the company own credit spreads are also considered when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including otc derivative contracts. where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors, including bid-ask spreads, credit quality and market liquidity. these adjustments are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable inputs where available. otc derivative contracts . otc derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates, foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices. depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of otc derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the black-scholes option- 61 table of contents pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swap and option contracts. in the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. a substantial majority of otc derivative products valued by the company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. other derivative products, typically the newest and most complex products, will require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. this includes certain credit default swaps where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. derivative interests in mortgage-related cdos, for which observability of external price data is extremely limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market for similar positions as indicated by secondary and primary market activity in the cash cdo and synthetic cdo market. each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and prepayment scenarios, deal structures (e.g., non-amortizing reference obligations, call features) and liquidity. while these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions nevertheless requires significant judgment. mortgage-related credit default swaps are valued based on data from comparable credit instruments in the cash market and trades in comparable swaps as benchmarks, as prices and spreads for the specific credits subject to valuation tend to be of limited observability. for basket credit default swaps and cdo-squared positions, the correlation between reference credits is often a significant input into the pricing model, in addition to several other more observable inputs such as credit spread, interest and recovery rates. as the correlation input is unobservable for each specific swap, it is benchmarked to standardized proxy baskets for which external data are available. these instruments involve significant unobservable inputs and are categorized in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. the company trades various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. depending on the type of structure, the model inputs generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity underlier spread curves, volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the correlation between these inputs. the fair value of these products is estimated using executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide values for the aforementioned inputs. where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input values. commodity derivatives are generally categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. prior to the adoption of sfas no. 157, the company followed the provisions of eitf issue no. 02-3. under eitf issue no. 02-3, recognition of day one profit at inception of an otc derivative contract was prohibited unless the fair value of the contact was based on a valuation technique incorporating observable market data. with the adoption of sfas no. 157, the company is no longer applying the revenue recognition criteria of eitf issue no. 02-3. other sovereign government obligations . the fair value of foreign sovereign government obligations is generally based on quoted prices in active markets. when quoted prices are not available, fair value is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the bond in terms of issuer, maturity and seniority. these bonds are generally categorized in levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy. municipal bonds . the fair value of municipal bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations and pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. these bonds are generally categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. corporate bonds . the fair value of corporate bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations (where observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads. the spread data used are for 62 table of contents the same maturity as the bond. if the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that reference a comparable issuer is used. when observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery rates based on collateral values as key inputs. corporate bonds are generally categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in level 3 of the hierarchy. corporate loans and loan commitments . the fair value of corporate loans is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations (where observable) and market observable credit default swap levels along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable. the fair value of contingent corporate loan commitments is estimated by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. the valuation of these commitments also takes into account certain fee income. while certain corporate loans, closed loan commitments and revolving loans are level 2 instruments, certain other corporate loans and contingent corporate loan commitments are categorized in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. mortgage loans . the valuation of mortgage loans depends upon the exit market for the loan. loans not intended for securitization are valued based on the analysis of the underlying collateral performance, capital structure and market spreads for comparable positions as prices and/or spreads for specific credits tend to be unobservable. where comparables do not exist, such loans are valued based on origination price and collateral performance (credit events) since origination. these loans are classified in levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy. the company also holds certain loan products and mortgage products with the intent to securitize them. when structuring of the related securitization is substantially complete, such that the value likely to be realized in a current transaction is consistent with the price that a securitization entity will pay to acquire these products, the company marks them to the expected securitized value. factors affecting the value of loan and mortgage products intended to be securitized include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratio, updated cumulative loan loss data, prepayment rates, yields, investor demand, any significant market volatility since the last securitization, and credit enhancement. while these valuation factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions may require significant judgment. these instruments are classified in levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy. u.s. agency securities . u.s. agency securities include to-be-announced ( tba ) securities and mortgage pass-through certificates. tba securities are liquid and have quoted market prices. fair value of mortgage pass-through certificates is determined via a simulation model, which considers different rate scenarios and historical activity to calculate a spread to the comparable tba security. u.s. agency securities are categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. commercial mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities ( abs ). cmbs and abs may be valued based on external price/spread data. when position-specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable bonds. included in this category are certain interest-only securities, which, in the absence of market prices, are valued as a function of observable whole bond prices and cash flow values of principal-only bonds using current market assumptions at the measurement date. cmbs and abs are categorized in level 3 if external prices are unobservable; otherwise they are categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. retained interests in securitization transactions. the company engages in securitization activities related to various types of loans and bonds. the company may retain interests in securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. to determine fair values, observable inputs are used if available. observable inputs, however, may not be available for certain retained interests so the company estimates fair value based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks 63 table of contents involved. when there are no significant unobservable inputs, retained interests are categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. when unobservable inputs are significant to the fair value measurement, albeit generally supportable by historical and actual benchmark data, retained interests are categorized in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. investments in private equity and real estate. the company investments in private equity and real estate take the form of direct private equity investments and investment in private equity and real estate funds. the transaction price is used as the best estimate of fair value at inception. when evidence supports a change to the carrying value from the transaction price, adjustments are made to reflect expected exit values. ongoing reviews by company management are based on an assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating valuations that consider the evaluation of financing and sale transactions with third parties, expected cash flows and market-based information, including comparable company transactions, performance multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. these nonpublic investments are included in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently, and, therefore, the fair value is unobservable. physical commodities . the company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined products, metals and agricultural products. fair value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. physical commodities are categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. deposits . the fair value of certificates of deposit is estimated using third-party quotations. these deposits are categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. structured notes . the company issues structured notes that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. fair value of structured notes is estimated using valuation models described in this section for the derivative and debt features of the notes. these models incorporate observable inputs, including prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates. the impact of the company own credit spreads also is included based on the company observed secondary bond market spreads. most structured notes are categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. reclasses from level 2 to level 3. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the company reclassified approximately $7.0 billion of funded assets and $279 million of net derivative contracts from level 2 to level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement became unobservable. these reclasses were primarily related to the continued market and liquidity deterioration in the mortgage markets. the most material transfers to level 3 were in commercial whole loans, residuals from residential securitizations, interest-only commercial mortgage and agency bonds as well as commercial and residential credit default swaps. fair value control processes . the company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. these control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. in the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. these control processes include reviews of the pricing model theoretical soundness and appropriateness by company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the financial control, market risk and credit risk departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. consistent with market practice, the company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. this sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the company recorded fair value 64 table of contents for the relevant otc derivative products. for certain otc derivative products, the company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. this information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these otc derivative products. legal, regulatory and tax contingencies. in the normal course of business, the company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. the company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the company business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. the company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the company has significant business operations. these tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. the company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate. the company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with sfas no. 5. once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change. significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any. see notes 2, 15 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations. special purpose entities. the company enters into a variety of transactions with special purpose entities, primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds 65 table of contents and other types of financial instruments. in most cases, these spes are deemed to be variable interest entities. unless a vie is determined to be a qualifying special purpose entity ( qspe ), the company is required under accounting guidance to perform an analysis of each vie at the date upon which the company becomes involved with it to determine whether the company is the primary beneficiary of the vie, in which case the company must consolidate the vie. qspes are not consolidated. in accordance with accounting guidance, the company reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a vie upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. if the company initial assessment results in a determination that it is not the primary beneficiary of a vie, then the company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of: changes to the vie governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the expected residual returns of the vie between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the company. acquisition by the company of additional variable interests in the vie. if the company initial assessment results in a determination that it is the primary beneficiary, then the company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of: changes to the vie governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the expected residual returns of the vie between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the company. a sale or disposition by the company of all or part of its variable interests in the vie to unrelated parties. the issuance of new variable interests by the vie to parties unrelated to the company. the determination of whether an spe meets the accounting requirements of a qspe requires significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the spe are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the spe are passive and nonexcessive. in addition, the analysis involved in determining whether an entity is a vie, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a vie, requires significant judgment (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). certain factors affecting results of operations. the company results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. in addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. in addition, there continues to be a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. such factors also may have an impact on the company ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. for a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the company business, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. 66 table of contents liquidity and capital resources. the company senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the company. through various risk and control committees, the company senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the company asset and liability position. these committees, along with the company treasury department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the company business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the company liquidity and capital policies. for a description of the company other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a. the company liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse franchise or business impact. the key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the company business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. the principal elements of the company liquidity management framework are the contingency funding plan, the liquidity reserve and the cash capital policy. comprehensive financing guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities and committed credit facilities) support the company target liquidity profile. the balance sheet. the company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. given the nature of the company market-making and customer financing activities, the size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing and managing its business. the company total assets decreased to $1,045,409 million at november 30, 2007 from $1,121,192 million at november 30, 2006. the decrease was primarily due to decreases in securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to resell and the completion of the discover spin-off (see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by an increase in cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations and securities received as collateral. within the sales and trading related assets and liabilities, there are transactions attributable to securities financing activities. securities financing assets and liabilities as of november 30, 2007 were $587 billion and $559 billion, respectively. securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received, customer receivables/payables and related segregated customer cash. securities financing assets and liabilities include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. these matched book transactions are to accommodate customers, as well as to obtain securities for the settlement and finance of inventory positions. the customer receivable/payable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in order to satisfy regulatory requirements. the company exposure on these transactions is limited by collateral maintenance policies, which in turn limits the company credit exposure to customers. included within securities financing assets was $82 billion that, in accordance with sfas no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities ( sfas no. 140 ) represented equal and offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions. balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company overall liquidity and capital policies. the company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure 67 table of contents of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. the company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. these low-risk assets generally are attributable to the company matched book and securities lending businesses. adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fasb interpretation no. 46 (revised december 2003) consolidation of variable interest entities ( fin 46r ). gross assets are also reduced by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements. the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). in addition, the company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. these characteristics include the long-dated nature (e.g., some have final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the company option by a further 19 years; others have a 60-year final maturity at issuance), the company ability to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. the company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities. excluding the $82 billion of assets and liabilities recorded in accordance with sfas no. 140 would reduce the leverage ratio from 32.6x to 30.0x. the following table sets forth the company total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006: balance at average month-end balance november 30, 2007 november 30, 2006 fiscal 2007(1) fiscal 2006(2) (dollars in millions, except ratio data) total assets $ 1,045,409 $ 1,121,192 $ 1,202,065 $ 1,022,269 less: securities purchased under agreements to resell (126,887 ) (175,787 ) (176,973 ) (183,490 ) securities borrowed (239,994 ) (299,631 ) (279,729 ) (274,807 ) add: financial instruments sold, not yet purchased 134,341 183,119 172,075 157,678 less: derivative contracts sold, not yet purchased (71,604 ) (57,491 ) (59,869 ) (47,176 ) subtotal 741,265 771,402 857,569 674,474 less: cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements(3) (61,608 ) (29,565 ) (41,357 ) (41,644 ) assets recorded under certain provisions of sfas no. 140 and fin 46r (110,001 ) (100,236 ) (132,141 ) (82,992 ) goodwill and net intangible assets(4) (4,071 ) (3,443 ) (3,924 ) (2,894 ) adjusted assets $ 565,585 $ 638,158 $ 680,147 $ 546,944 common equity $ 30,169 $ 34,264 $ 35,235 $ 31,740 preferred equity 1,100 1,100 1,100 423 shareholders equity 31,269 35,364 36,335 32,163 junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts 4,876 4,884 4,878 3,875 subtotal 36,145 40,248 41,213 36,038 less: goodwill and net intangible assets(4) (4,071 ) (3,443 ) (3,924 ) (2,894 ) tangible shareholders equity $ 32,074 $ 36,805 $ 37,289 $ 33,144 leverage ratio(5) 32.6 x 30.5 x 32.2 x 30.8 x adjusted leverage ratio(6) 17.6 x 17.3 x 18.2 x 16.5 x 68 table of contents (1) average balances for fiscal 2007 were calculated based upon month-end balances from november 2006 through november 2007. average common equity was adjusted for the discover spin-off. (2) the results for the company and for the institutional securities business segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 were adjusted (see note 24 to the consolidated financial statements). (3) in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the adjusted assets calculation was revised in order to reduce gross assets by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements. all prior periods have been restated to conform with the current presentation. (4) effective december 1, 2006, mortgage servicing rights have been included in net intangible assets. amounts as of november 30, 2006 have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation. (5) leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. (6) adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders equity. activity in fiscal 2007. the company total capital consists of shareholders equity, long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts. at november 30, 2007, total capital was $191,085 million, an increase of $28,951 million from november 30, 2006. the company redeemed all $66 million of its outstanding capital units on february 28, 2007. during the 12 months ended november 30, 2007, the company issued senior notes with a carrying value aggregating $76.1 billion, including non-u.s. dollar currency notes aggregating $35.2 billion. in connection with the note issuances, the company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term london interbank offered rates ( libor ) trading levels. at november 30, 2007, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the company senior indebtedness (as defined in the company senior debt indentures) was approximately $207 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). the weighted average maturity of the company long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.5 years at november 30, 2007. subsequent to fiscal year-end and through december 31, 2007, the company long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $10 billion. in addition, in december 2007, the company sold equity units to a wholly owned subsidiary of cic for approximately $5,579 million. see china investment corporation investment herein. 69 table of contents china investment corporation investment. in december 2007, the company sold equity units which include contracts to purchase company common stock (see stock purchase contracts herein) to a wholly owned subsidiary of cic for approximately $5,579 million. cic ownership in the company common stock, including the maximum number of shares of common stock to be received by cic upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts, will be 9.9% or less of the company total shares outstanding based on the total shares outstanding on november 30, 2007. cic will be a passive financial investor and will have no special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the company. a substantial portion of the investment proceeds will be treated as tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes. each stock purchase contract mandatorily settles in company common stock at prices between $48.0700 and $57.6840. the maximum number of shares to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts included in the equity units is approximately 116,063,000. the stock purchase contracts settle for company common stock on august 17, 2010, subject to adjustment. each equity unit will pay a fixed annual payment rate of 9% payable quarterly. as described below, the equity units consist of interests in trust preferred securities issued by morgan stanley capital trust a ( series a trust ), morgan stanley capital trust b ( series b trust ) or morgan stanley capital trust c ( series c trust ) (each a morgan stanley trust and, collectively, the trusts ) and stock purchase contracts issued by the company. the only assets held by the series a trust, series b trust and series c trust are junior subordinated debentures issued by the company. equity units. each equity unit has a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of: (i) an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of series a trust, series b trust or series c trust with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; and (ii) a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the company. junior subordinated debentures issued to support trust common and trust preferred securities . in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the company issued junior subordinated debt securities due no later than february 17, 2042 for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the trusts and $30,000 in trust common securities issued equally by the trusts. the company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to sfas no. 159. the common and trust preferred securities of the trusts, totaling approximately $5,579 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective trusts. the series a trust, series b trust and series c trust will make quarterly distributions on the trust common and trust preferred securities at an annual rate of 6%. the trust common securities, which are held by the company, represent an interest in the trusts and are recorded as an equity method investment in the company consolidated statement of financial condition. the trusts are vies in accordance with fin 46r and the company does not consolidate its interests in the trusts as it is not the primary beneficiary of any of the trusts. the company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the trusts. if the company does not make payments on the junior subordinated debentures owned by a morgan stanley trust, such morgan stanley trust will not be able to pay any amounts payable in respect of the trust preferred securities issued by it and will not have funds legally available for that purpose. in that event, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to 70 table of contents rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. the guarantee will remain in place until the redemption price of all of the trust preferred securities is paid, the amounts payable with respect to the trust preferred securities upon liquidation of the morgan stanley trusts are paid or the junior subordinated debentures are distributed to the holders of all the trust preferred securities. the trust preferred securities held by the equity unit holders are pledged to the company to collateralize the obligations of the equity unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. the equity unit holders may substitute certain zero-coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contracts. stock purchase contracts . each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase, and the company to sell, on the stock purchase date a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the company common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the settlement rate. the settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the arithmetic average of the volume-weighted average prices of the common stock during a specified 20-day period ending three days immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date ( applicable market value ). if the applicable market value of the company common stock is less than the threshold appreciation price of $57.6840 but greater than $48.0700, the reference price, the settlement rate will be a number of shares of the company common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the applicable market value. if the applicable market value is less than or equal to the reference price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the company common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the reference price. if the applicable market value is greater than or equal to the threshold appreciation price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the company common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the threshold appreciation price. accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the company will receive proceeds of approximately $5,579 million and issue up to approximately 116,063,000 shares of its common stock. the stock purchase contract may be settled early at the option of the holder at any time prior to the second business day immediately preceding the beginning of the first remarketing period. however, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate, subject to adjustment. the initial quarterly distributions on the series a, series b and series c trust preferred securities of 6%, combined with the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts of 3%, result in the 9% yield on the equity units. if the company defers any of the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 9% until paid, to the extent permitted by law. the present value of the future contract adjustment payments due under the stock purchase contracts was approximately $400 million and was recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses with a corresponding decrease recorded in shareholders equity in the company consolidated statement of financial condition in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. the other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will accrete over the term of the stock purchase contract using the effective yield method with a corresponding charge to interest expense. when the contract adjustment payments are made under the stock purchase contracts, they will reduce the other liability balance. calculation of impact on average diluted common shares outstanding prior to settlement of stock purchase contract. prior to the issuance of common stock upon settlement of the stock purchase contract, the impact of the equity units will be reflected in the company earnings per diluted common share using the treasury stock method, as defined by sfas no. 128, earnings per share. under the treasury stock method, the number of shares of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted common share will be calculated as the excess, if any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contract based on the 71 table of contents average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number of shares that could be purchased by the company with the proceeds to be received upon settlement of the contract at the average closing price for the reporting period. dilution of net income per share will occur (i) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares is over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares for a reporting period is between $48.0700 and $57.6840 and is greater than the average market price for the last 20 days ending three days prior to the end of such reporting period. upon settlement of the stock purchase contract, the amount of common shares issued in settlement of the contract will be included in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding for the reporting period. economic capital. the company economic capital model estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses and their risk-generating activities through the business cycle while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor minimum requirements. the economic capital model will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate improvements in modeling techniques in order to reflect the capital required to support business activities. economic capital requirements are allocated to each business segment and are sub-allocated to product lines as appropriate. each business segment is capitalized as if each were an independent operating entity. this process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk and associated cost of required capital, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns (such as return on equity and shareholder value added) to facilitate resource allocation decisions. the company methodology is based on a going-concern approach that assigns equity to each business based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses, including principal investment risk. regulatory capital, including additional capital assigned for certain goodwill, intangible assets and net deferred tax assets, is a minimum requirement to ensure the company access to funding and credibility in the market. the company believes it must be able to sustain stress losses and maintain capital substantially above regulatory minimums while supporting ongoing business activities. the difference between the company consolidated book equity and aggregate equity requirements denotes the company unallocated capital position, which is not currently reflected in business segment performance metrics. the company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. market risk scenarios capture systematic, idiosyncratic and random market risk through the use of internal market stress data. credit risk is included in the form of idiosyncratic counterparty default events. business risk incorporates earnings volatility due to variability in revenue flows, with estimates on the mix of fixed versus variable expenses at various points in the business cycle. operational stress losses primarily reflect legal risk across the company. beginning in fiscal 2007, economic capital requirements are met by regulatory tier 1 equity (including common shareholders equity, certain preferred stock, eligible hybrid capital instruments and deductions of certain goodwill, intangible assets and net deferred tax assets), subject to regulatory limits. 72 table of contents the following table presents the company allocated average tier 1 equity ( economic capital ) for fiscal 2007 and average common equity for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006: fiscal year ended 2007 2006 average tier 1 equity average common equity average common equity (dollars in billions) institutional securities $ 24.6 $ 23.9 $ 18.0 global wealth management group 1.5 1.7 3.0 asset management 2.7 3.5 2.4 unallocated capital 2.9 2.9 3.1 total from continuing operations 31.7 32.0 26.5 discontinued operations 2.7 3.2 5.2 total $ 34.4 $ 35.2 $ 31.7 the increase in capital allocated to institutional securities from the prior-year period reflects the increased market and credit risk profile as well as capital required for new acquisitions and investments. the company expects to continue deploying capital, provided market opportunities continue to warrant such investments. the decrease in the economic capital allocated to the global wealth management group was due to the company reassessment of the amount of capital required to support the market risks and credit risks in this business segment. the incremental equity capital allocated to asset management primarily represents capital required for acquisitions and investments in asset management products. the company unallocated economic capital was $(2.7) billion at november 30, 2007 due to the loss recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and increased capital assigned to the institutional securities business segment. in december 2007, the company entered into an agreement with cic as a long-term financial investor and issued new capital of approximately $5,579 million through equity units. these equity units will help to further bolster the company capital position and enhance growth opportunities globally while also building on the company deep historic ties and market leadership in china (see china investment corporation investment herein). the company continues to believe that it is adequately capitalized. the company generally uses available unallocated capital for organic growth, additional acquisitions, and other capital needs including repurchases of common stock while maintaining adequate internal capital ratios. during fiscal 2007, the company shareholders equity has been affected by the adoption of sfas no. 158 (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements), sfas no. 157 and sfas no. 159 (see notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements), and the discover spin-off (see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements). equity capital management policies. the company senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the company equity capital base adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. capital is required for, among other things, the company inventories, underwritings, principal investments, bridge loans and other financings, investments in fixed assets and for future uses. capital for future uses will be included within unallocated capital until required by the business segments. the company also considers return on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the company is operating and its peer group results. in this regard, the company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines 73 table of contents and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. the company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries equity. at november 30, 2007, the company equity capital (which includes shareholders equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $36,145 million, a decrease of $4,103 million from november 30, 2006, primarily due to the discover spin-off. the company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. during fiscal 2007, the company purchased approximately $3.8 billion of its common stock (approximately 52 million shares) through open market purchases at an average cost of $72.65 (see also market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities in part ii, item 5). in december 2006, the company announced that its board of directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the company outstanding common stock. this share repurchase authorization replaced the company previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. as of november 30, 2007, the company had approximately $2.3 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization. the board of directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. in december 2007, the company announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. the company also announced that its board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $379.66 per share of series a floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.37966). liquidity management policies. the primary goal of the company liquidity management and financing activities is to ensure adequate funding over a wide range of market environments. given the highly liquid nature of the company balance sheet, funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of collateralized financing. the company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the treasury department. the company maintains a liquidity management framework in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand a contraction in credit availability. the framework components include the contingency funding plan ( cfp ), liquidity reserve and cash capital. contingency funding plan . the company maintains a cfp to manage a potential prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and to provide the ability to conduct business in an orderly manner. the cfp is produced on a parent, bank subsidiary and non-bank subsidiary level. the cfp sets forth a course of action to ensure effective management of a liquidity event. liquidity risk exposures are regularly evaluated and reported to the firm risk committee and appropriate business segment risk committees. the company cfp model incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks. 74 table of contents the company cfp is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. the cfp assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. in addition, the cfp assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities. liquidity reserve . the company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve that is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets as outlined in the cfp. this liquidity reserve is held in the form of cash deposits with banks and a pool of unencumbered securities. the company manages the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, on a global basis, and securities for the pool are chosen accordingly. the u.s. and non-u.s. components, held in the form of a reverse repurchase agreement at the parent company, consists of u.s. and european government bonds and other high-quality collateral. the company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. the company funding requirements and target liquidity reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors. the table below summarizes the company liquidity reserves on a parent, bank subsidiary and non-bank subsidiary level. the liquidity held on the bank and non-bank subsidiary level is generally not available to the parent. at november 30, 2007 average balance liquidity reserve for the quarter ended november 30, 2007 for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2007 (dollars in billions) parent $ 62 $ 64 $ 49 bank subsidiaries 22 22 16 non-bank subsidiaries 34 34 20 total $ 118 $ 120 $ 85 cash capital . the company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. sources of cash capital include the parent company equity and the non-current portion of certain long-term borrowings. uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, equipment, goodwill, net intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment (i.e., stressed haircuts); and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments. the company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. the company equity capital of $36,145 million (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts of $4,876 million) and long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $154,940 million comprised the company total capital of $191,085 million as of november 30, 2007, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements. committed credit facilities. the maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the company funding sources. the company values committed credit as a secondary component of its liquidity management framework. the committed credit facilities include a diversification of lenders to the company covering geographic regions, including north america, europe and asia. the company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a u.s. dollar 75 table of contents tranche; a japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and british pound, all of which exist with the company as the sole borrower. under this combined facility (the credit facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.6 billion under the u.s. dollar tranche, 80 billion japanese yen under the japanese yen tranche and $3.25 billion under the multicurrency tranche. the credit facility expires on april 16, 2008 and includes a term-out feature that allows the company, at its option, to extend borrowings under the credit facility for an additional one year beyond the expiration date. at november 30, 2007, the company had a $13.8 billion consolidated stockholders equity surplus as compared with the credit facility covenant requirement. the company anticipates that it may utilize the credit facility for short-term funding from time to time. the company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its credit facility will impair its ability to obtain funding under the credit facility, pay its current level of dividends or obtain loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. at november 30, 2007, no borrowings were outstanding under the credit facility. the company also maintains a committed bilateral credit facility to support general liquidity needs. this facility is expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs. capital covenants. in october 2006 and april 2007, the company executed a replacement capital covenant in connection with offerings by morgan stanley capital trust vii and morgan stanley capital trust viii (the capital securities ). under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, the company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the capital securities for specified periods of time. for a complete description of the capital securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenant, see the company current reports on form 8-k dated october 12, 2006 and april 26, 2007. funding management policies. the company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. these sources include the company equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; u.s., canadian, european, japanese and australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the company bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. the company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the u.s., european and asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the u.s. dollar, euro, british pound, australian dollar and japanese yen. the company bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase federal funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits obtained from individual securities clients. brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued by the company bank subsidiaries. other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposit. the company funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the company operations that would result from an interruption in the availability of the company funding sources. the company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the company liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. maturities of financings are designed 76 table of contents to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. the company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. in addition, the company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. the company also maintains committed credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs. secured financing. a substantial portion of the company total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its institutional securities sales and trading activities. the highly liquid nature of these assets provides the company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowings. the company goal is to encourage funding through collateralized borrowings in order to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured financing. the institutional securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. as part of this effort, the institutional securities business segment continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity. in addition, the company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses. unsecured financing. the company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories and illiquid assets. in general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. the company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). the company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its cash capital policy. in addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the company liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). availability and cost of financing to the company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the company credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. the company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. this approach gives the company flexibility to manage the unsecured debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that intercompany borrowings mature before those of the parent company. liquidity and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the company ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company. during fiscal 2007, the company long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. as a result, for fiscal 2007, a principal amount of $53 billion of unsecured debt was issued (of which $22 billion of equity-linked and credit-linked notes were not considered to be a component of the company cash capital). financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $30 billion. 77 table of contents credit ratings. the company reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the company short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are significant to the determination of the company credit ratings or that otherwise affect its ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the company level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, retention of key personnel, risk profile, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. a deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the company, thereby increasing the cost to the company in obtaining unsecured funding. in addition, the company debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business, the company may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. at november 30, 2007, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the company senior debt credit rating was approximately $746 million. of this amount, $677 million relates to bilateral arrangements between the company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. these bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded. as of january 22, 2008, the company credit ratings were as follows: commercial paper senior debt dominion bond rating service limited r-1 (middle) aa (low) fitch ratings(1) f1+ aa- moody investors service(2) p-1 aa3 rating and investment information, inc.(3) a-1+ aa standard &amp; poor s(4) a-1+ aa- (1) on december 19, 2006, fitch ratings changed the outlook on the company senior debt ratings from stable to negative. (2) on november 8, 2007, moody investors service changed the outlook on the company senior debt ratings from stable to negative. (3) on december 20, 2007, rating and investment information, inc. changed the outlook on the company senior debt from stable to negative. (4) on july 30, 2007, standard &amp; poor upgraded the company commercial paper rating from a-1 to a-1+ and upgraded the company senior debt rating from a+ to aa-. on november 8, 2007, standard &amp; poor changed the outlook on the company commercial paper and senior debt ratings from stable to negative. on december 19, 2007, standard &amp; poor placed the company commercial paper and senior debt ratings on creditwatch with negative implications. off-balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities businesses. institutional securities activities . the company utilizes spes primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated 78 table of contents statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $5.3 billion at november 30, 2007, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan and u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions. for further information about the company securitization activities, see notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements as well as impact of credit market events herein. the company has entered into liquidity facilities with spes and other counterparties, whereby the company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. the company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the spes in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). guarantees. fasb interpretation no. 45, guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others ( fin 45 ), requires the company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. fin 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. fin 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. the table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at november 30, 2007: maximum potential payout/notional carrying amount collateral/ recourse years to maturity type of guarantee less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 total (dollars in millions) notional amount of derivative contracts $ 999,552 $ 1,004,069 $ 2,546,374 $ 2,570,385 $ 7,120,380 $ 131,678 $ 59 standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees(1) 5,133 1,824 1,107 6,712 14,776 802 2,396 market value guarantees 97 106 655 858 44 145 liquidity facilities 18,043 1,026 444 1,652 21,165 20,281 (1) approximately $14 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the commitments and contractual obligations table below in the investment grade and non-investment grade primary and secondary lending commitments and in the letters of credit issued by subsidiaries that are guaranteed by the company. in the ordinary course of business, the company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. these guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. the activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the company consolidated financial statements. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information on trust preferred securities, indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees and other guarantees. 79 table of contents commitments and contractual obligations. the company commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, other financial guarantees, investment activities, and corporate lending and financing arrangements as of november 30, 2007 are summarized below by period of expiration. since commitments associated with letters of credit, other financial guarantees, and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: years to maturity total less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) letters of credit and other financial guarantees(1) $ 10,790 $ 4 $ 4 $ $ 10,798 letters of credit issued by subsidiaries that are guaranteed by the company 197 1,186 194 3,674 5,251 investment activities(2) 318 238 108 647 1,311 investment grade primary lending commitments(3)(4) 19,656 5,791 23,323 1,421 50,191 non-investment grade primary lending commitments(3)(4) 789 1,072 3,931 14,220 20,012 investment grade secondary lending commitments(4)(5) 1,406 1,406 non-investment grade secondary lending commitments(4)(5) 81 27 151 2,090 2,349 commitments for secured lending transactions(6) 3,824 4,095 1,073 2,628 11,620 commercial and residential mortgage-related commitments(7) 5,680 5,680 other commitments(8) 964 19 5 988 total $ 42,299 $ 12,432 $ 28,789 $ 26,086 $ 109,606 (1) this amount primarily represents the company outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the company counterparties. the company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral and margin requirements. (2) this amount represents commitments associated with the company real estate, private equity and principal investment activities, which include alternative products. (3) the company investment grade and non-investment grade primary lending commitments are made in connection with corporate lending and other business activities. credit ratings for commitments are determined by the company institutional credit department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. obligor credit ratings of bb+ or lower are considered non-investment grade. (4) the company records these commitments at fair value within financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statement of financial condition (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). (5) this amount represents commitments associated with the company institutional securities sales and trading activities. (6) this amount represents lending commitments extended by the company to companies that are secured by real estate assets of the borrower. loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. this amount also includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $1,246 million, which have maturities of less than four years. (7) these amounts represent the company forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans, residential mortgage loan commitments to individuals and residential home equity lines of credit. (8) this amount includes commercial loan commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the company global wealth management group business. at november 30, 2007, the company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $107 billion and $26 billion, respectively. 80 table of contents in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations at november 30, 2007 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of november 30, 2007 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2008 fiscal 2009-2010 fiscal 2011-2012 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 30,808 $ 43,081 $ 39,701 $ 77,034 $ 190,624 operating leases office facilities(2) 549 907 676 2,732 4,864 operating leases equipment(2) 650 569 210 123 1,552 purchase obligations(3) 268 107 8 383 total $ 32,275 $ 44,664 $ 40,595 $ 79,889 $ 197,423 (1) see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. purchase obligations at november 30, 2007 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. these amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the company consolidated statement of financial condition. regulatory requirements. on april 1, 2007, the company merged morgan stanley dw inc. ( msdwi ) into morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated ( ms&amp;co ). upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, ms&amp;co., became the company principal u.s. broker-dealer. ms&amp;co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority and the commodity futures trading commission. ms&amp;co. has consistently operated in excess of these requirements. ms&amp;co. net capital totaled $6,673 million at november 30, 2007, which exceeded the amount required by $4,950 million. morgan stanley &amp; co. international plc ( msip ), a london-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services authority, and morgan stanley japan securities co., ltd. ( msjs ), a tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the financial services agency. msip and msjs consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements. under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the fdic and other bank regulatory agencies, fdic-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). at november 30, 2007, the leverage ratio, tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the company fdic-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums. certain other u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. these subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. morgan stanley derivative products inc. ( msdp ) and cournot financial products llc ( cournot ), which are triple-a rated derivative products subsidiaries, maintain certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. both entities are operated such that creditors of the company should not expect to have 81 table of contents any claims on either the assets of cournot or the assets of msdp, unless and until the obligations of such entity to its own creditors are satisfied in full. creditors of cournot or msdp, respectively, should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the company or any of its affiliates, other than the respective assets of cournot or msdp. the company is a consolidated supervised entity ( cse ) as defined by the sec. as such, the company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the sec and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. during fiscal 2007, the company was in compliance with cse capital requirements. ms&amp;co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of appendix e of rule 15c3-1. ms&amp;co. is also required to notify the sec in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. as of november 30, 2007, ms&amp;co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 82 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the company ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market, credit, operational, legal, and liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is protection of the company franchise, reputation and financial standing. the company risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. given the importance of effective risk management to the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the company and business segment level. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification. the nature of the company risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure includes the firm risk committee, the capital structure and strategic transactions committee, the chief risk officer, the internal audit department, independent control groups, and various other risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across business segments. the firm risk committee, composed of the company most senior officers, oversees the company risk management structure. the firm risk committee responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise risks. the firm risk committee is overseen by the audit committee of the board of directors (the audit committee ). the capital structure and strategic transactions committee (the capital committee ) reviews strategic transactions for the company and significant changes to the company capital structure. the capital committee responsibilities include reviewing measures of capital and evaluating capital resources relative to the company risk profile and strategy. the chief risk officer, a member of the firm risk committee, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves certain excessions of company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the audit committee. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the audit committee and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. 83 table of contents the market risk, credit risk, operational risk, financial control, treasury, and legal and compliance departments (collectively, the company control groups ), which are all independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the firm risk committee in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the firm risk committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. each of the company business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively, segment control groups and, together with the company control groups, the control groups ) to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. the control groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding and liquidity risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business where the substantial majority of the company value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within the global wealth management group. asset management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in funds and investments in private equity vehicles. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the company var system. a variety of limits is designed to control price and market liquidity 84 table of contents risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management. subprime and related risks . during 2007, asset-backed products referencing subprime consumer mortgages experienced a significant increase in expected default rates, resulting in a dramatic reduction in asset prices and market liquidity. although other markets have also experienced periods of significant illiquidity in the past, the combined magnitude and velocity of price depreciation, as well as the continuing nature of the event, place it among the most significant market shocks ever realized. while such events may recur in the future, the timing and magnitude of recurrence are difficult to predict. events of this magnitude are outside of the loss estimates forecast by var models and are more commonly measured by alternative risk measures such as stress tests and scenario analyses. however, the market moves associated with the subprime events of 2007 were significantly greater than those included in the company stress tests and scenario analyses at that time. the company has since enhanced its stress test and scenario analyses to better incorporate the levels of price volatility realized during the second half of fiscal 2007. stress tests and scenario analyses represent estimates of future significant events. actual market moves may continue to be more dramatic than the estimates included in the company var, stress tests and scenario analyses. limitations to var models are discussed further in var methodology, assumptions and limitations below. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during fiscal 2007, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed corporate debt, investment grade corporate debt and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions (including positions in non-public entities). positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non u.s. dollar-denominated financial instruments. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. these changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities. 85 table of contents the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. net exposure, defined as the potential loss to the company over a period of time in the event of default of a referenced asset, assuming zero recovery, is one key risk measure the company employs to standardize the aggregation of market risk exposures across cash and derivative products. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the company revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk, interest rate risk and credit spread risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. the var model also captures certain correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks between corporate debt and related credit derivatives. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses 86 table of contents monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds, loans, and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. the company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of var methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. in response to increased levels of market volatility realized during the second half of fiscal 2007, the company has reviewed the appropriateness of the implementation of its var models and has made certain changes to more accurately capture risks generated by certain fixed income products. these changes include additional historical time series that provide broader product coverage of subprime consumer mortgage products as well as updated mappings of risk exposures to historical price time series. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. var is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2007 . the table below presents the company aggregate (trading and non-trading), trading and non-trading var for each of the company primary market risk exposures at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely the relevant microeconomic factors that affect mortgage prices within a var context. aggregate trading and non-trading var also incorporates (a) the interest rate risk generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions, (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the company and (c) corporate loan exposures that are awaiting distribution to the market. investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results reported below. aggregate trading and non-trading var also excludes certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets as well as the credit spread risk generated by the company funding liabilities. as of november 30, 2007, the notional amount of funding liabilities related to non-trading assets (including premises, equipment and software, goodwill, deferred tax assets and intangible assets) was approximately $7.8 billion, with a duration of approximately 10 years. the credit spread risk sensitivity generated by the company funding 87 table of contents liabilities (i.e., those funding both trading and non-trading assets) corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $78 million for each +1 basis point (or 1/100 th of a percentage point) widening in the company credit spread level as of november 30, 2007. since the var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days. var does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the var amount. the table below presents 95%/one-day var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006. aggregate (trading and non-trading) trading non-trading table 1: 95% total var 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 52 $ 41 $ 45 $ 38 $ 33 $ 13 equity price 40 58 39 55 4 5 foreign exchange rate 24 9 25 9 1 commodity price 34 31 34 31 subtotal 150 139 143 133 38 18 less diversification benefit(1) 67 50 65 48 5 3 total var $ 83 $ 89 $ 78 $ 85 $ 33 $ 15 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company aggregate var at november 30, 2007 was $83 million compared with $89 million at november 30, 2006. the decrease in aggregate var and trading var at year-end was driven primarily by a decrease in equity exposures toward the end of the fiscal year. the company trading var at november 30, 2007 was $78 million compared with $85 million at november 30, 2006. the decrease in trading var at year-end was driven primarily by a decrease in equity price var, partially mitigated by increases in foreign exchange rate var and interest rate and credit spread var. the increase in foreign exchange rate var was driven by increased exposure to foreign currencies. the increase in interest rate and credit spread var was driven primarily by two factors. first, at november 30, 2007 the company reclassified the investment portfolio of its bank subsidiaries from securities available for sale to financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition. (the total notional amount of reclassified assets at november 30, 2007 was $8.1 billion, consisting entirely of abs and residential mortgage-backed securities). second, during fiscal 2007, the u.s. subprime market experienced a significant increase in price volatility. this increase in volatility drove an increase in var with respect to the company exposure to securities that reference subprime mortgage pools and related financial instruments, whose change in value is modeled as a function of the underlying securities. non-trading var at november 30, 2007 increased to $33 million from $15 million at november 30, 2006 primarily due to an increase in interest rate and credit spread non-trading var resulting from an increase in non-trading loan assets. 88 table of contents the company views average trading var over the fiscal year as more representative of trends in the business than var at any single point in time. table 2 below, which presents the high, low and average 95%/one-day trading var during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, represents substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from these measures (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions). average trading var for fiscal 2007 increased to $87 million from $60 million in fiscal 2006, driven by increases across all four primary market risk categories. average total var for fiscal 2007 increased to $92 million from $67 million in fiscal 2006, which was also driven by increases across all four primary market risk categories. the increase in interest rate and credit spread var was predominately driven by increased volatility in securitized product and corporate credit markets, which resulted in a higher var despite a reduction in risk exposures during the fiscal year. the increase in equity price var was primarily driven by increased equity exposures. the increase in foreign exchange rate var was driven by increased exposure to foreign currencies. the increase in commodity price var was predominately driven by increased exposure to electricity and natural gas products. table 2: 95% high/low/average trading var daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2007 daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2006 primary market risk category high low average high low average (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 88 $ 34 $ 46 $ 48 $ 29 $ 35 equity price 61 29 43 55 21 28 foreign exchange rate 33 10 18 23 5 9 commodity price 48 28 37 43 23 30 trading var 108 69 87 85 49 60 non-trading var 61 11 22 37 10 22 total var $ 123 $ 70 $ 92 $ 91 $ 54 $ 67 var statistics under varying assumptions. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 3 below presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years versus one year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations: table 3: average 95% and 99% trading var with four-year/one-year historical time series average 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2007 average 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2007 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 46 $ 46 $ 74 $ 72 equity price 43 49 65 81 foreign exchange rate 18 18 26 28 commodity price 37 37 57 52 trading var $ 87 $ 90 $ 127 $ 132 in addition, if the company were to report trading var (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the company 95% and 99% average trading var for fiscal 2007 would have been $274 million and $402 million, respectively. 89 table of contents distribution of var statistics and net revenues for fiscal 2007. as shown in table 2 above, the company average 95%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2007 was $87 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2007. the most frequently occurring value was between $86 million and $89 million, while for approximately 90% of trading days during the fiscal year, var ranged between $71 million and $98 million. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. for days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% var statistic, the company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the var model accuracy relative to realized trading results. the company incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 95%/one-day trading var on 15 days during fiscal 2007. these losses were incurred during a period of exceptionally high volatility across equity, corporate credit and securitized product markets. since the company bases its var calculations on four years of equally weighted historical data, clustering of var exceptions should occur during periods of exceptionally high market turbulence. an examination of the 15 outliers incurred during the fiscal year revealed that these losses occurred on days when markets experienced unusually high price volatility. over the longer term, trading losses are expected to exceed var an average of three times per quarter at the 95% confidence level. the company bases its var calculations on the long-term (or unconditional) distribution and, therefore, evaluates its risk from a longer term perspective, which avoids understating risk during periods of relatively lower volatility in the market. 90 table of contents the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue during fiscal 2007 for the company trading businesses (including net interest and non-agency commissions but excluding certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). during fiscal 2007, the company experienced net trading losses on 34 days. these loss days were driven predominately by increased market volatility realized during the second half of the fiscal year. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its financial obligations. the company is exposed to two distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. the company incurs significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business and to a lesser extent through its commercial lending activity in its global wealth management group. this type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. the company also incurs individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed discretely. the institutional credit department ( institutional credit ) evaluates and monitors credit risk exposure for the institutional securities business. institutional credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure in the global wealth management group business segment is managed through various credit risk committees, whose membership includes institutional credit. the global wealth management group risk management department is responsible for monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. 91 table of contents institutional securities activities. corporate lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. such loans and commitments can generally be classified as either event-driven or relationship-driven. event-driven loans and commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions. the commitments associated with these event-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. in addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the company portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. the borrower ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. the borrowers of event-driven lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. the company risk manages its exposures in connection with event-driven transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging. relationship-driven loans and commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. the commitments associated with relationship-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. the borrowers of relationship-driven lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. the company may hedge its exposures in connection with relationship-driven transactions. securitized products. the company also extends loans and lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value. other. in addition to the activities performed by institutional credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within institutional securities. for example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. certain risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale, and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities, or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 92 table of contents analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. in order to help protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, institutional credit analyzes all material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. institutional credit assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers. these credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or below are considered non-investment grade. additionally, for lending transactions, institutional credit evaluates the relative position of the company particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. the company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties. institutional credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements may provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure-corporate lending. the following table presents information about the company corporate loans and commitments as of november 30, 2007. the total corporate lending exposure column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. funded loans represent loans that have been drawn by the borrower and that were outstanding as of november 30, 2007. lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients as of november 30, 2007 for both relationship-driven and event-driven transactions. as discussed above, these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the company. 93 table of contents at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $13.0 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $10.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006, the aggregate amount of lending commitments outstanding was $70.2 billion and $53.5 billion, respectively. in connection with these business activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges with a notional amount of $37.6 billion and $26.5 billion at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006, respectively. the table below shows the company credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and commitments as of november 30, 2007. since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: corporate lending commitments and funded loans years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2)(3) corporate funded loans total corporate lending commitments credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 701 $ 462 $ 1,253 $ $ 2,416 $ 380 $ 2,036 aa 8,016 457 3,615 369 12,457 1,941 10,516 a 7,695 3,451 8,617 419 20,182 3,120 17,062 bbb 10,010 3,954 13,058 1,124 28,146 7,569 20,577 investment grade 26,422 8,324 26,543 1,912 63,201 13,010 50,191 non-investment grade 2,862 2,387 4,777 20,883 30,909 10,897 20,012 total $ 29,284 $ 10,711 $ 31,320 $ 22,795 $ 94,110 $ 23,907 $ 70,203 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total corporate lending exposure includes both lending commitments and funded loans. amounts exclude approximately $38 billion of notional amount of hedges. (3) total corporate lending exposure includes event-driven funded loans of $10.8 billion and event-driven lending commitments of $24.5 billion. included in the $24.5 billion of event-driven loan commitments were $12.2 billion of commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. 94 table of contents credit exposure-derivatives. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2007. fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements, where applicable, and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 1,625 $ 1,572 $ 2,142 $ 8,219 $ (4,057 ) $ 9,501 $ 9,287 aa 11,560 9,686 6,649 23,231 (29,925 ) 21,201 18,011 a 4,196 3,212 3,675 8,234 (8,454 ) 10,863 10,203 bbb 3,245 3,444 2,879 2,566 (3,484 ) 8,650 6,387 non-investment grade 6,299 3,954 2,753 3,016 (5,007 ) 11,015 6,505 unrated(4) 2,005 664 190 691 (368 ) 3,182 710 total $ 28,930 $ 22,532 $ 18,288 $ 45,957 $ (51,295 ) $ 64,412 $ 51,103 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. (4) in lieu of making an individual assessment of the creditworthiness of unrated companies, the company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at november 30, 2007, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 5,236 $ 10,704 $ 11,752 $ 42,911 $ (37,028 ) $ 33,575 $ 29,877 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 10,449 1,133 142 67 (4,043 ) 7,748 6,327 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 6,875 3,157 872 764 (3,493 ) 8,175 2,832 commodity forwards, options and swaps 6,370 7,538 5,522 2,215 (6,731 ) 14,914 12,067 total $ 28,930 $ 22,532 $ 18,288 $ 45,957 $ (51,295 ) $ 64,412 $ 51,103 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 95 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 6,573 $ 8,749 $ 11,154 $ 29,487 $ (37,138 ) $ 18,825 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 10,868 1,043 117 380 (3,038 ) 9,370 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 6,375 4,952 2,129 1,746 (3,453 ) 11,749 commodity forwards, options and swaps 7,762 7,821 2,273 1,743 (5,946 ) 13,653 total $ 31,578 $ 22,565 $ 15,673 $ 33,356 $ (49,575 ) $ 53,597 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the company derivatives (both listed and otc) at november 30, 2007 and november 30, 2006 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product: at november 30, 2007 at november 30, 2006 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 33,804 $ 19,515 $ 19,444 $ 15,688 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,755 9,372 7,325 7,725 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 19,913 27,887 16,705 23,155 commodity forwards, options and swaps 15,531 14,830 11,969 10,923 total $ 77,003 $ 71,604 $ 55,443 $ 57,491 each category of derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the company determines the fair values recorded in the above tables using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies in part i, item 2 and note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. country exposure. the company monitors its credit exposure to individual countries. credit exposure to a country arises from the company primary lending activities and derivatives activities in a country. at november 30, 2007, based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 7% of the company credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivatives contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 2% of the company credit exposure. the company defines emerging markets to include generally all countries that are not members of the organization for economic co-operation and development and includes as well the czech republic, hungary, korea, mexico, poland, the slovak republic and turkey but excludes countries rated aa and aa2 or above by standard &amp; poor and moody investors service, respectively. 96 table of contents industry exposure. the company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries. at november 30, 2007, the company material credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivatives contracts) was to entities engaged in the following industries: utilities, financial institutions, consumer-related entities, banks, telecommunications, sovereign and energy-related entities. global wealth management group activities. margin lending. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. at november 30, 2007, there were approximately $7.3 billion of customer margin loans outstanding. non-purpose securities-based lending: non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. the company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. commercial lending. global wealth management group provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-size domestic businesses through morgan stanley commercial financial services, inc. ( cfs ). cfs suite of products includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. clients are required to submit a credit application and financial statements to cfs centralized credit processing platform. cfs underwriting professionals recommend a lending structure following an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. for standard transactions, credit requests are approved via signature of independent credit officers, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by independent credit professionals. the facility is risk rated and upon credit approval is moved to the general portfolio where it is monitored periodically through account management, covenants compliance certificates, and spot and cycle audits. consumer lending activities. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages within the company institutional securities business segment, including home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. as part of the mortgage 97 table of contents lending business strategy, almost all loans are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and whole loan sales, while almost all servicing rights are retained. these sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events (e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). the company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and facilities management). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. the goal of the company operational risk management framework is to establish firm-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. operational risk policies are designed to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and reputational risks. as a foundation for the basel ii advanced measurement approach, an enhanced risk-based capital model has been developed for the calculation of capital related to operational risk. this model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements, including internal and external operational incidents, metrics, risk and control self-assessments and scenario analysis. the company will seek to obtain approval from the sec to implement the advanced measurement approach for operational risk capital requirements in 2008. the company operational risk manager ( orm ) oversees, monitors, measures, analyzes and reports on operational risk across the company. the orm is independent of the business segments and is supported by the firm-wide operational risk department ( ord ). the orm is also responsible for facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the firm-wide operational risk program. the ord works with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the company, globally. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups, and the business managers therein. the business managers, generally, maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. as new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. in addition, business segment risk committees review operational risk matters and/or reports on a regular basis. each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management. oversight of business segment operational risk is provided by business segment risk committees, a firm-wide operational risk committee and, ultimately, senior management through the firm risk committee. business continuity management is an ongoing program of analysis and planning that ensures a recovery strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business segment recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing. the company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. information security procedures are designed to protect the company information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. these procedures cover a broad range of areas, including: application system entitlement; data protection; internet and intranet access, communications and usage; and mobile and portable information usage. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. 98 table of contents the company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the legal and compliance division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 99 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. liquidity risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that morgan stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of morgan stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends. the occ, the fed and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding company subsidiaries. 17 table of contents future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the u.s. treasury equity investment in us. under the terms of the cpp, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the cpp remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the u.s. treasury consent until the third anniversary of the u.s. treasury investment or until the u.s. treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the cpp to third parties. furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources equity capital management policies in part ii, item 7 herein. our liquidity and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economy. global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in the past six months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. in particular, our cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. as a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. the amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the 18 table of contents realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business segment. we may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions . market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. morgan stanley risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and morgan stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. we also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. 19 table of contents credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various credit arrangements. corporate clients seek loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. we incur individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities. recent market conditions, including decreased liquidity and pricing transparency along with increased market volatility, will negatively impact our single-name credit risk exposure. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect morgan stanley. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from external events (e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). morgan stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and trade processing). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. 20 table of contents despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by morgan stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal risk. legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see risk management legal risk in part ii, item 7a herein. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are and will become subject as a result of becoming a financial holding company. on september 21, 2008, we obtained approval from the fed to become a bank holding company. on september 23, 2008, we became a financial holding company concurrent with the conversion of morgan stanley bank into a national bank. we have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies. the bhc act also grandfathers commodities activities provided that certain conditions are satisfied. in addition, the bhc act permits the fed to determine by regulation or order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk to safety and soundness. the fed has previously determined that a wide range of commodities activities are either financial in nature or complementary to a financial activity. although we expect to be able to continue to engage in most of the activities in which we currently engage after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible under applicable regulations. if so, we will be required to divest them before the end of the grace period discussed above. we do not believe that any such required divestment will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of becoming a financial holding company, we will be restricted in engaging in new activities that are not financial in nature. this may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in. in addition, in order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, our depository institution subsidiaries, such as morgan stanley bank, n.a., must remain well capitalized and well managed. under regulations implemented by the fed, if any depository institution controlled by us no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on us and place limitations on our ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. if any depository institution controlled by us were to fail to maintain a satisfactory rating under the community reinvestment act, the fed would be required to restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to engage in additional activities to the range of activities permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies, which would severely restrict our ability to conduct our business. as a financial holding company, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the fed, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. the fed generally requires us and our peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of the minimum levels required by certain guidelines published by the federal banking regulators, depending upon general economic conditions and each financial holding company particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit our operations requiring the intensive use of capital. such requirements may limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present 21 table of contents business levels. further requirements, including certain dividend restrictions, have been imposed on us and other financial institutions participating in the cpp (see supervision and regulation financial holding company dividends in part i, item 1 and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources equity capital management policies in part ii, item 7 herein). our business, financial condition and results of operations are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by new regulations or by changes in regulations or the application thereof in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate. the financial services industry is heavily regulated. we are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. in light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. most recently, governments in the u.s. and abroad have intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. steps undertaken in the u.s. include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, including by establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, insuring deposits in certain transaction deposit accounts, and injecting capital into financial institutions. some of the measures subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the price of our common stock. proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the u.s. congress, in state legislatures and around the world. the agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the u.s. and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions, are possible in the years ahead. we are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action 22 table of contents against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the fed and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we own six electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and europe; transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and have an interest in the heidmar group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. for example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for example, the eu has increased its focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. 23 table of contents a failure to deal with conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses. as a global financial services firm that provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interests in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between morgan stanley and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and the firm or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk. it is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses. competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. in fiscal 2008, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major u.s. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial government assistance or were placed into conservatorship by the u.s. federal government. these developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see competition in part i, item 1 herein. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes with performance. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. pursuant to the standardized terms of the cpp described above, among other things, we have agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior management positions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior management. it is possible that the u.s. treasury may, as it is permitted to do, impose further requirements on us. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. it is possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. 24 table of contents international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. acquisition risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. we expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. to the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations, joint ventures or strategic alliances, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. there is no assurance that our acquisitions or any business we acquire will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. in october 2008, morgan stanley and mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc. announced a global strategic alliance and have identified areas of potential collaboration for such alliance, including corporate and investment banking, certain areas of retail banking and asset management, and lending activities such as corporate and project related loans. in january 2009, morgan stanley and citi announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine morgan stanley global wealth management group and citi smith barney in the u.s., quilter in the u.k., and smith barney australia into a new joint venture to be called morgan stanley smith barney (see also recent business developments in part i, item 1 herein). 25 table of contents risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 88 in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations at november 30, 2008 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of november 30, 2008 are summarized below: payments due in: fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010-2011 fiscal 2012-2013 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 21,971 $ 33,323 $ 42,596 $ 65,547 $ 163,437 operating leases office facilities(2) 568 991 775 2,651 4,985 operating leases equipment(2) 452 440 173 74 1,139 purchase obligations(3) 399 247 2 648 total $ 23,390 $ 35,001 $ 43,546 $ 68,272 $ 170,209 (1) see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. purchase obligations at november 30, 2008 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. these amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the company consolidated statement of financial condition. see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements regarding subsequent events. regulatory requirements. in september 2008, the company became a financial holding company subject to the regulation and oversight of the fed. in granting financial holding company status, the fed will evaluate the company compliance with well-capitalized standards prospectively (see supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i). prior to september 2008, the company was a consolidated supervised entity as defined by the sec. during fiscal 2008 and as of november 30, 2008, the company calculated capital requirements on a consolidated basis in accordance with the basel ii accord as interpreted by the sec. the basel ii accord is designed to be a risk-based capital adequacy approach, which allows for the use of internal estimates of risk components to calculate regulatory capital. as of november 30, 2008, the company was in compliance with basel ii capital requirements with a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets ( rwas ) of 26.8%. the company seeks to maintain a ratio of tier 1 capital to rwas of at least 6%. this ratio as of november 30, 2008 was 17.9%. in addition to the above ratios, financial holding companies are also subject to a tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the fed. the company calculated its tier 1 leverage ratio as tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). the adjusted average total assets are derived using month-end balances for the fiscal quarter. this ratio as of november 30, 2008 was 6.6%. 85 table of contents the following table presents the company basel ii consolidated capital ratios and allowances as of november 30 and august 31, 2008 (dollars in millions): november 30, 2008 august 31, 2008 allowable capital tier 1 capital: common shareholders equity $ 31,676 $ 34,665 qualifying preferred stock 19,155 1,100 qualifying mandatorily convertible trust preferred securities 5,579 5,579 qualifying other junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts 4,788 4,788 less: goodwill (1,823 ) (2,536 ) less: non-servicing intangible assets (675 ) (757 ) less: net deferred tax assets (4,747 ) (3,074 ) less: debt valuation adjustment (4,059 ) (2,201 ) total tier 1 capital 49,894 37,564 tier 2 capital: other components of allowable capital: qualifying subordinated debt 4,102 4,092 qualifying long-term debt 20,845 14,690 total tier 2 capital 24,947 18,782 total allowable capital $ 74,841 $ 56,346 risk-weighted assets market risk $ 80,451 $ 100,521 credit risk 151,954 144,966 operational risk 46,375 51,100 total $ 278,780 $ 296,587 capital ratios total capital ratio 26.8 % 19.0 % tier 1 capital ratio 17.9 % 12.7 % total allowable capital is comprised of tier 1 and tier 2 capital. tier 1 capital consists predominately of common shareholders equity as well as qualifying preferred stock (including cumulative preferred stock issued to the u.s. department of the treasury and non-cumulative preferred stock), trust preferred securities mandatorily convertible to common equity and other junior subordinated debt issued to trusts less goodwill (excluding minority ownership), non-servicing intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year) and debt valuation adjustment ( dva ). dva represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain of the company borrowings (for which the fair value option was elected) that was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. for a further discussion of fair value see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. tier 2 capital consists of qualifying subordinated and long-term debt. long-term debt included in tier 2 capital has a maturity greater than five years and is limited (together with qualifying subordinated debt) to an amount equal to 50% of tier 1 capital, until december 1, 2008 when long-term debt no longer is included in tier 2 capital. the company total capital ratio excluding long-term debt from tier 2 capital was 19.4% as of november 30, 2008. as of november 30, 2008, the company calculated its rwas in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the sec which is consistent with guidelines described under the basel ii accord. rwas reflect both on and off balance sheet risk of the company. the risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations. for march 31, 2009 and future dates, the company expects to calculate its capital ratios and rwas in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for bank holding companies adopted by the fed. these standards are based upon a framework described in the international convergence of capital measurement, july 1988, as amended, also referred to as basel i. 86 table of contents market rwas reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. for a further discussion of the company market risks and value-at-risk model, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a herein. market rwas incorporate three components: systematic risk, specific risk, and incremental default risk ( idr ). systematic and specific risk charges are computed using either a standardized approach (applying a fixed percentage to the fair value of the assets) or the company value-at-risk model. capital charges related to idr are calculated using an idr model that estimates the loss due to sudden default events affecting traded financial instruments at a 99.9% confidence level. in addition, market rwas include assets classified as investments for which capital is computed using a standardized approach. credit rwas reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. for a further discussion of the company credit risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. credit rwas are determined using either an internal ratings-based ( irb ) approach, which reflects the company internal estimate of a borrower or counterparty credit worthiness, or a standardized approach. a standardized approach is used for certain asset categories, including receivables ( e.g ., fees, interest and other), premises, equipment and software costs, and other assets where a fixed percentage is applied to the fair value of the assets. credit capital charges related to certain loans, otc derivative receivable exposures and security financing transactions are computed using an irb approach. within the irb approach, future potential credit exposure resulting from derivative receivables is estimated using an internal model and is the most significant contributor to total credit rwas. the risk-reducing effect of hedges related to loan and counterparty exposures is excluded from capital calculations. operational risk capital charges are designed to account for the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events and take into account legal risk. rwas for operational risk are currently calculated under the basic indicator approach in accordance with basel ii. the company holds capital equal to the average net revenues over the previous three years using a fixed percentage. for a further discussion of operational risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the company also employs an economic capital framework, whereby incremental capital for stress losses is held in addition to capital requirements under basel ii requirements (see liquidity and capital resources economic capital herein). effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 87 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the company ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market, credit, liquidity and funding, operational and legal risk. liquidity and funding risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is the execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the company capital base and franchise. the company risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. given the importance of effective risk management to the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the company and business segment level. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification. the nature of the company risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure includes the firm risk committee, the chief risk officer, the internal audit department, independent control groups, and various other risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across business segments. the firm risk committee, composed of the company most senior officers, oversees the company risk management structure. the firm risk committee responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal, operational and franchise risks and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. the firm risk committee is overseen by the audit committee of the board of directors (the audit committee ). the chief risk officer, a member of the firm risk committee who reports to the chief executive officer, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves certain excessions of company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the audit committee. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the audit committee and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. the market risk, credit risk, operational risk, financial control, treasury, and legal and compliance departments (collectively, the company control groups ), which are all independent of the company 88 table of contents business units, assist senior management and the firm risk committee in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the firm risk committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. each of the company business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively, segment control groups and, together with the company control groups, the control groups ) to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. the control groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding and liquidity risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business where the substantial majority of the company value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within the global wealth management group. asset management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the company var system. a variety of limits is designed to control price and market liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses 89 table of contents conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management. recent market conditions. recent unprecedented events in the global markets (see executive summary global market and economic conditions in fiscal 2008 part ii, item 7 herein) are significantly outside the loss estimates forecast by var models and are more commonly measured by alternative risk measures such as stress tests and scenario analysis. in fiscal 2008, the company continued to enhance these alternative risk measures to better reflect exposures arising from certain products ( e.g. , securitized products). the company continues to improve its risk measurement using stress tests and scenario analysis and has refined its market risk limit framework. these actions, however, may not address the potential severity of possible losses as actual market moves may continue to be more dramatic than the estimates included in the company var, stress tests and scenario analyses. for a further discussion on limitations to var models, see var methodology, assumptions and limitations below. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during fiscal 2008, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments ( e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed corporate debt, investment grade corporate debt and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions (including positions in non-public entities). positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non u.s. dollar-denominated financial instruments. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. these changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of 90 table of contents positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. net exposure, defined as the potential loss to the company over a period of time in the event of default of a referenced asset, assuming zero recovery, is one key risk measure the company employs to standardize the aggregation of market risk exposures across cash and derivative products. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. the market risk department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the company revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events. value-at-risk (var) . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses approximately four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk, interest rate risk and credit spread risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. the var model also captures certain correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks between corporate debt and related credit derivatives. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products ( i.e. , corporate bonds, loans, and credit derivatives). 91 table of contents the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. the company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of var methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. in response to increased levels of market volatility realized during fiscal 2008, the company has reviewed the appropriateness of the implementation of its var models and has made certain changes to more accurately capture risks generated by certain fixed income products. these changes include additional historical time series that provide broader product coverage of subprime consumer and other mortgage products as well as updated mappings of risk exposures to historical price time series. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. var is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for fiscal 2008 . the table below presents the company aggregate, trading and non-trading var for each of the company primary market risk exposures at november 30, 2008 and november 30, 2007, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. for example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely the relevant microeconomic factors that affect mortgage prices within a var context. aggregate var also incorporates certain non-trading risks, including (a) the interest rate risk generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions, (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the company and (c) corporate loan exposures that are awaiting distribution to the market. investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results presented below. aggregate var also excludes certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets. the credit spread risk generated by the company funding liabilities is not included in the company aggregate var calculations. as of november 30, 2008, the notional amount of funding liabilities related to non-trading assets (including premises, equipment and software, goodwill, deferred tax assets and intangible assets) was approximately $8.7 billion, with a duration of approximately 11 years. the credit spread risk sensitivity generated by the company funding liabilities ( i.e. , those funding both trading and non-trading assets) corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $81 million for each +1 basis point (or 1/100 th of a percentage point) widening in the company credit spread level as of november 30, 2008. 92 table of contents since the var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days. var does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the var amount. the table below presents 95%/one-day var for each of the company primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at november 30, 2008 and november 30, 2007. aggregate (trading and non-trading) trading non-trading table 1: 95% total var 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, 95%/one-day var at november 30, primary market risk category 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 127 $ 52 $ 98 $ 45 $ 67 $ 33 equity price 23 40 23 39 4 4 foreign exchange rate 14 24 14 25 2 1 commodity price 23 34 23 34 subtotal 187 150 158 143 73 38 less diversification benefit(1) 52 67 54 65 6 5 total var $ 135 $ 83 $ 104 $ 78 $ 67 $ 33 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company aggregate var at november 30, 2008 was $135 million compared with $83 million at november 30, 2007. the increase in aggregate var at year-end was driven primarily by a substantial increase in interest rate and credit spread var, partially offset by decreases in equity price, foreign exchange rate and commodity price var. the company trading var at november 30, 2008 was $104 million compared with $78 million at november 30, 2007. the increase in trading var at year-end was driven primarily by a substantial increase in interest rate and credit spread var, partially offset by decreases in equity price, foreign exchange rate and commodity price var. non-trading var at november 30, 2008 increased to $67 million from $33 million at november 30, 2007 primarily due to an increase in interest rate and credit spread var. the company views average trading var over a period of time as more representative of trends in the business than var at any single point in time. table 2 below, which presents the high, low and average 95%/one-day trading var during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, represents substantially all of the company trading activities. certain market risks included in the year-end aggregate var discussed above are excluded from these measures ( e.g. , equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions). average trading var for fiscal 2008 increased to $98 million from $87 million in fiscal 2007, driven by increases in interest rate and credit spread var and foreign exchange rate var. average total var for fiscal 2008 increased to $115 million from $92 million in fiscal 2007, which was also driven by increases in interest rate and credit spread var and foreign exchange rate var. the increase in interest rate and credit spread var 93 table of contents was predominately driven by increased volatility in interest rate and credit spread sensitive products, especially securities that reference mortgage-backed securities. the increase in foreign exchange rate var was driven by increased exposure to foreign currencies. average non-trading var for fiscal 2008 increased to $53 million from $22 million in fiscal 2007, driven primarily by increased exposures associated with certain non-trading lending positions. table 2: 95% high/low/average trading and non-trading var daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2008 daily 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2007 primary market risk category high low average high low average (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 101 $ 42 $ 69 $ 88 $ 34 $ 46 equity price 53 17 35 61 29 43 foreign exchange rate 40 12 25 33 10 18 commodity price 44 22 35 48 28 37 trading var 114 78 98 108 69 87 non-trading var 96 29 53 61 11 22 total var 143 82 115 123 70 92 var statistics under varying assumptions. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 3 below presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years versus one year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations: table 3: average 95% and 99% trading var with four-year/one-year historical time series average 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2008 average 99%/one-day var for fiscal 2008 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 69 $ 123 $ 168 $ 258 equity price 35 38 55 67 foreign exchange rate 25 25 39 37 commodity price 35 33 54 51 trading var 98 130 176 263 in addition, if the company were to report trading var (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the company 95% and 99% average trading var for fiscal 2008 would have been $311 million and $556 million, respectively. 94 table of contents distribution of var statistics and net revenues for fiscal 2008. as shown in table 2 above, the company average 95%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2008 was $98 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day trading var for fiscal 2008. the most frequently occurring value was between $97 million and $103 million, while for approximately 92% of trading days during the fiscal year, var ranged between $88 million and $109 million. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the fiscal year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. for days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% var statistic, the company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the var model accuracy relative to realized trading results. the company incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 95%/one-day trading var on 18 days during fiscal 2008. most of these losses were incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, a period of unprecedented volatility across the equity, corporate credit and securitized product markets ( e.g. , the fourth quarter provided the majority of the most volatile stock market days in the past 60 years and major indexes lost approximately 30% in the quarter). since the company bases its var calculations on four years of equally weighted historical data, clustering of var exceptions should occur during periods of exceptionally high market turbulence. an examination of the 18 outliers incurred during the fiscal year revealed that these losses occurred on days when markets experienced unusually high price volatility. over the longer term, trading losses are expected to exceed var an average of three times per quarter at the 95% confidence level. the company bases its var calculations on the long-term (or unconditional) distribution and, 95 table of contents therefore, evaluates its risk from a longer term perspective, which avoids understating risk during periods of relatively lower volatility in the market. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue during fiscal 2008 for the company trading businesses (including net interest and non-agency commissions but excluding certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). during fiscal 2008, the company experienced net trading losses on 76 days. these loss days were driven predominately by increased market volatility realized during the second half of the fiscal year. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its financial obligations. the company is exposed to two distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. the company incurs significant, single-name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business and to a lesser extent through its commercial lending activity in its global wealth management group. this type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. the company also incurs individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed discretely. the institutional credit department ( institutional credit ) evaluates and monitors credit risk exposure for the institutional securities business segment. institutional credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure in the global wealth management group business segment is managed through various credit risk committees, whose membership includes institutional credit. the global wealth management group risk management department is responsible for monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. 96 table of contents institutional securities activities. corporate lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. such loans and commitments can generally be classified as either event-driven or relationship-driven. event-driven loans and commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions. the commitments associated with these event-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. in addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the company portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. the borrower ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. the borrowers of event-driven lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. the company risk manages its exposures in connection with event-driven transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging. relationship-driven loans and commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. the commitments associated with relationship-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. the borrowers of relationship-driven lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. the company may hedge its exposures in connection with relationship-driven transactions. securitized products. the company also extends loans and lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value. other. in addition to the activities performed by institutional credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within institutional securities. for example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. certain risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants, and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities, or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 97 table of contents analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. in order to help protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, institutional credit analyzes all material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. institutional credit assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers. these credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or below are considered non-investment grade. additionally, for lending transactions, institutional credit evaluates the relative position of the company particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. the company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties. institutional credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure corporate lending. the following table presents information about the company corporate funded loans and lending commitments as of november 30, 2008. the total corporate lending exposure column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. funded loans represent loans that have been drawn by the borrower and that were outstanding as of november 30, 2008. lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients as of november 30, 2008 for both relationship-driven and event-driven lending transactions. as discussed above, these loans and lending commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the company. at november 30, 2008 and november 30, 2007, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $8.3 billion and $13.0 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $9.5 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. at november 30, 2008 and november 30, 2007, the aggregate amount of lending commitments outstanding was $42.4 billion and $70.2 billion, respectively. in connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges (which include single name, sector and index hedges) with a notional amount of $35.8 billion and $37.6 billion at november 30, 2008 and november 30, 2007, respectively. the table below shows the company credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and commitments as of november 30, 2008. since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: 98 table of contents corporate lending commitments and funded loans years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate funded loans total corporate lending commitments credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 839 $ 114 $ 1,425 $ $ 2,378 $ 114 $ 2,264 aa 2,697 527 3,511 73 6,808 40 6,768 a 3,955 4,779 6,424 69 15,227 2,333 12,894 bbb 3,157 7,010 8,849 305 19,321 5,870 13,451 investment grade 10,648 12,430 20,209 447 43,734 8,357 35,377 non-investment grade 1,285 2,851 5,477 6,890 16,503 9,454 7,049 total $ 11,933 $ 15,281 $ 25,686 $ 7,337 $ 60,237 $ 17,811 $ 42,426 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total corporate lending exposure includes both lending commitments and funded loans, which are at fair value. amounts exclude approximately $36 billion of notional amount of hedges. event-driven loans and commitments. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above is event-driven exposure of $9.4 billion comprised of funded loans of $4.3 billion and lending commitments of $5.1 billion. included in the $9.4 billion of event-driven exposure were $5.6 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. activity associated with the corporate event-driven lending exposure during fiscal 2008 was as follows (dollars in millions): event-driven lending exposures at november 30, 2007 $ 35,412 closed commitments 12,413 withdrawn commitments (813 ) net reductions, primarily through distributions(1) (35,639 ) mark-to-market adjustments (1,934 ) event-driven lending exposures at november 30, 2008 $ 9,439 (1) included in net reductions are sales of approximately $4.2 billion of highly leveraged loans, high yield notes, and lending commitments to affiliates of third party private equity firms. the company provided senior secured financing of approximately $3.0 billion to these firms. the company retained interest is the senior debt collateralized by the transferred assets. the transferred assets are no longer reflected in the consolidated financial statements. the retained interests are classified as financial instruments owned corporate and other debt in the consolidated statement of financial condition. 99 table of contents credit exposure derivatives. the table below presents a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at november 30, 2008. fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements, where applicable, and, in the final column, net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 2,777 $ 3,053 $ 4,860 $ 14,875 $ (9,539 ) $ 16,026 $ 14,545 aa 16,511 14,472 17,317 37,788 (64,480 ) 21,608 18,753 a 6,792 5,652 3,649 15,571 (15,755 ) 15,909 12,132 bbb 5,248 5,865 3,206 12,665 (7,941 ) 19,043 17,249 non-investment grade 10,148 7,312 5,674 7,070 (13,437 ) 16,767 11,527 total $ 41,476 $ 36,354 $ 34,706 $ 87,969 $ (111,152 ) $ 89,353 $ 74,206 (1) fair values shown present the company exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by institutional credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity as of november 30, 2008, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 9,107 $ 19,673 $ 30,658 $ 84,585 $ (89,097 ) $ 54,926 $ 45,888 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 15,587 2,497 301 73 (7,174 ) 11,284 9,109 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 6,433 3,485 742 1,340 (7,058 ) 4,942 3,200 commodity forwards, options and swaps 10,349 10,699 3,005 1,971 (7,823 ) 18,201 16,009 total $ 41,476 $ 36,354 $ 34,706 $ 87,969 $ (111,152 ) $ 89,353 $ 74,206 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 100 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 7,781 $ 13,872 $ 20,634 $ 50,594 $ (60,854 ) $ 32,027 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 12,972 1,920 482 158 (4,260 ) 11,272 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 2,760 3,398 1,924 1,675 (5,848 ) 3,909 commodity forwards, options and swaps 7,002 8,981 1,839 1,217 (7,169 ) 11,870 total $ 30,515 $ 28,171 $ 24,879 $ 53,644 $ (78,131 ) $ 59,078 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the company derivatives (both listed and otc), on a net of counterparty and cash collateral basis, as of november 30, 2008 and november 30, 2007 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product category: at november 30, 2008 at november 30, 2007 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 55,247 $ 32,421 $ 33,804 $ 19,515 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 11,284 11,272 7,755 9,372 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 14,523 14,560 19,913 27,887 commodity forwards, options and swaps 18,712 15,268 15,531 14,830 total $ 99,766 $ 73,521 $ 77,003 $ 71,604 each category of derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the company determines the fair values recorded in the above tables using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 and notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements. country exposure. as of november 30, 2008, primarily based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 10% of the company credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivatives contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 3.2% of the company credit exposure. the company defines emerging markets to include generally all countries that are 101 table of contents not members of the organization for economic co-operation and development and includes as well the czech republic, hungary, korea, mexico, poland, the slovak republic and turkey but excludes countries rated aa and aa2 or above by standard &amp; poor and moody investors service, respectively. the following tables show the company percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by country as of november 30, 2008: country corporate lending exposure united states 67 % united kingdom 7 germany 5 other 21 total 100 % country otc derivative products united states 35 % cayman islands 10 united kingdom 8 france 5 italy 4 united arab emirates 4 jersey 3 germany 3 other 28 total 100 % industry exposure. as of november 30, 2008, the company material credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivatives contracts) was to entities engaged in the following industries: financial institutions, insurance, utilities, sovereign, transportation, consumer-related entities and telecommunications. the following tables show the company percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by industry as of november 30, 2008: industry corporate lending exposure utilities-related 14 % financial institutions 10 consumer-related entities 10 telecommunications 9 technology-related industries 8 general industrials 7 media-related entities 7 healthcare-related entities 5 energy-related entities 5 other 25 total 100 % 102 table of contents industry otc derivative products financial institutions 43 % sovereign entities 13 insurance 12 transportation-related entities 10 utilities-related entities 5 other 17 total 100 % global wealth management group activities. margin lending. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. at november 30, 2008, there were approximately $4.5 billion of customer margin loans outstanding. non-purpose securities-based lending. non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. the company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. commercial lending. global wealth management group provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-size domestic businesses through morgan stanley commercial financial services, inc. ( cfs ). cfs suite of products includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. clients are required to submit a credit application and financial statements to cfs centralized credit processing platform. cfs underwriting professionals recommend a lending structure following an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. for standard transactions, credit requests are approved via signature of independent credit officers, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by independent credit professionals. the facility is risk rated and upon credit approval is moved to the general portfolio where it is monitored periodically through account management, covenants compliance certificates, and spot and cycle audits. consumer lending activities. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral 103 table of contents valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g., fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. as part of the mortgage lending business strategy, almost all loans are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and whole loan sales, while almost all servicing rights are retained. these sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events ( e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). the company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities ( e.g., sales and trading) and support functions ( e.g., information technology and facilities management). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. the goal of the company operational risk management framework is to establish firm-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. operational risk policies are designed to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the framework continually responds to changing regulatory and business environment landscape. as a foundation for the basel ii advanced measurement approach, an enhanced risk-based capital model has been developed for the calculation of capital related to operational risk. this model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements, including internal and external operational incidents, metrics, risk and control self-assessments and scenario analysis. the operational risk oversight committee, a firm-wide committee, is chaired by the company chief risk officer, and assists the firm risk committee in executing its responsibilities for oversight of operational risk, including evaluating assessments of risk exposure, reviewing the company significant operational risk exposures, recommending and overseeing firmwide remediation efforts, review and evaluation of current event risk issues, and establishing firmwide operational risk program standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. the company operational risk manager ( orm ) oversees, monitors, measures, analyzes and reports on operational risk across the company. the orm is independent of the business segments and is supported by the firm-wide operational risk department ( ord ). the orm is also responsible for facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the firm-wide operational risk program. the ord works with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the company, globally. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups, and the business managers therein. the business managers, generally, maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. as new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. the operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports with senior management within each business. each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management. oversight of business segment operational risk is provided by business segment risk committees, the operational risk oversight committee, senior management through the firm risk committee. business continuity management is an ongoing program of analysis and planning that ensures a recovery strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other 104 table of contents business interruption. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business segment recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing. the company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. information security procedures are designed to protect the company information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. these procedures cover a broad range of areas, including: application system entitlement; data protection; internet and intranet access, communications and usage; and mobile and portable information usage. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access. the company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the legal and compliance division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 105 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that morgan stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of morgan stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be substantially affected negatively by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, as well as our capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends. the occ, the fed and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding company subsidiaries. 17 table of contents our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economy. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile during the past two years, with volatility reaching unprecedented levels in the fall of 2008 and into 2009. in particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. renewed turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economy could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see qualitative and quantitative disclosure about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. the amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business segment. we may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions . market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and 18 table of contents settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. morgan stanley risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and morgan stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as conditions in the global financial markets and global economy that prevailed from 2008 into 2009. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. we also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant single name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. we incur credit risk in traded securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, and residential mortgage loans. 19 table of contents the global economic downturn continues to impact our single name credit risk exposure. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. defaults by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect morgan stanley. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from other internal or external events (e.g., internal or external fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). morgan stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and trade processing). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by morgan stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal risk. legal and compliance risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements or litigation. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see risk management legal risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 20 table of contents the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes. as a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it operates. we also face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. some of these major changes may take effect as early as 2010, and could materially impact the profitability of our businesses, the value of assets we hold, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities and reputational risk. we are a bank holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company. as a financial holding company, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the fed, including risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits. reform proposals could result in our becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. regulatory reform proposals could also result in the imposition of additional restrictions on our activities if we were to no longer meet certain capital requirements at the level of the financial holding company. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the fed and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. 21 table of contents our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and europe; we own transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we have an interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. for example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for example, the u.s. and the eu have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. regulatory reforms currently underway are likely to include significant regulation of otc derivatives markets, which could include mandated exchange trading and clearing, position limits, margin, capital and registration requirements. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to deal with conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between morgan stanley and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and the firm or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses. 22 table of contents our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. in addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the fed subjects us to direct fed scrutiny with respect to transactions between morgan stanley domestic subsidiary banks and their affiliates. competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. these developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see competition in part i, item 1 herein. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry may experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, or employee compensation may be made subject to special taxation, as has been proposed in the u.k. and france, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. it is possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial 23 table of contents services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide and the fcpa. a violation of a sanction or embargo program or of the fcpa could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, combinations, joint ventures or strategic alliances, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our recent and planned business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, 24 table of contents including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 89 in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, contractual interest payments, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with its obligations as of december 31, 2009 are summarized below: at december 31, 2009 payments due in: 2010 2011-2012 2013-2014 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 26,088 $ 64,849 $ 41,886 $ 60,551 $ 193,374 contractual interest payments(2) 6,344 10,071 7,279 18,015 41,709 operating leases office facilities(3) 683 1,242 906 2,701 5,532 operating leases equipment(3) 514 279 109 136 1,038 purchase obligations(4) 408 271 119 98 896 pension and postretirement plans expected contribution(5) 275 275 total(6) $ 34,312 $ 76,712 $ 50,299 $ 81,501 $ 242,824 (1) see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. 85 table of contents (2) amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings and secured long-term financings based on applicable interest rates as of december 31, 2009. includes stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes. (3) see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (4) purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements, and certain license agreements related to mssb. purchase obligations as of december 31, 2009 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. these amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the company consolidated statement of financial condition. (5) see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). regulatory requirements. in september 2008, the company became a financial holding company under the bank holding company act subject to the regulation and oversight of the fed. the fed establishes capital requirements for the company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the company compliance with such capital requirements (see supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1). the office of the comptroller of the currency and the office of thrift supervision establish similar capital requirements and standards for the company national banks and federal savings bank, respectively. the company calculates its capital ratios and rwas in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the fed. these standards are based upon a framework described in the international convergence of capital measurement and capital standards, july 1988, as amended, also referred to as basel i. in december 2007, the u.s. banking regulators published a final basel ii accord that requires internationally active banking organizations, as well as certain of its u.s. bank subsidiaries, to implement basel ii standards over the next several years. the company will be required to implement these basel ii standards as a result of becoming a financial holding company. as of december 31, 2009, the company was in compliance with basel i capital requirements with ratios of tier 1 capital to rwas of 15.3% and total capital to rwas of 16.4% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). in addition, financial holding companies are also subject to a tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the fed. the company calculated its tier 1 leverage ratio as tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). the adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the calendar quarter. this ratio as of december 31, 2009 was 5.8%. 86 table of contents the following table reconciles the company total shareholders equity to tier 1 and total capital as defined by the regulations issued by the fed and presents the company consolidated capital ratios at december 31, 2009 (dollars in millions): at december 31, 2009 (dollars in millions) allowable capital tier 1 capital: common shareholders equity $ 37,091 qualifying preferred stock 9,597 qualifying mandatorily convertible trust preferred securities 5,730 qualifying restricted core capital elements 10,867 less: goodwill (7,162 ) less: non-servicing intangible assets (4,931 ) less: net deferred tax assets (3,242 ) less: debt valuation adjustment (554 ) other deductions (726 ) total tier 1 capital 46,670 tier 2 capital: other components of allowable capital: qualifying subordinated debt 3,127 other qualifying amounts 158 total tier 2 capital 3,285 total allowable capital $ 49,955 total risk-weighted assets $ 305,000 capital ratios total capital ratio 16.4 % tier 1 capital ratio 15.3 % total allowable capital is composed of tier 1 and tier 2 capital. tier 1 capital consists predominately of common shareholders equity as well as qualifying preferred stock, trust preferred securities mandatorily convertible to common equity and qualifying restricted core capital elements (including other junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and non-controlling interests) less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets (excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year) and dva. dva represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain of the company borrowings (for which the fair value option was elected) that was attributable to changes in the company own instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. for a further discussion of fair value, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. tier 2 capital consists principally of qualifying subordinated debt. as of december 31, 2009, the company calculated its rwas in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the fed, which is consistent with guidelines described under basel i. rwas reflect both on and off-balance sheet risk of the company. the risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations. market rwas reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. for a further discussion of the company market risks and value-at-risk ( var ) model, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management in part ii, item 7a herein. market rwas incorporate three components: systematic risk, specific risk, and incremental default risk 87 table of contents ( idr ). systematic and specific risk charges are computed using either a standardized approach (applying a fixed percentage to the fair value of the assets) or the company var model. capital charges related to idr are calculated using an idr model that estimates the loss due to sudden default events affecting traded financial instruments at a 99.9% confidence level. the company received permission from the fed for the use of its market risk models through calendar year 2009 while undergoing the fed review. based on the final outcome of that review, the capital ratios may be lower or higher in 2010. credit rwas reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. for a further discussion of the company credit risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in part ii, item 7a, herein. credit rwas are determined using basel i regulatory capital guidelines for u.s. banking organizations issued by the fed. effects of inflation and changes in foreign exchange rates. the company assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the company expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. to the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the company financial position and profitability. a significant portion of the company business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-u.s. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the company financial performance. these strategies may include the financing of non-u.s. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. 88 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. risk management policy and control structure. risk is an inherent part of the company business and activities. the company has policies and procedures in place for measuring, monitoring and managing each of the various types of significant risks involved in the activities of its institutional securities, global wealth management group and asset management business segments and support functions as well as at the holding company level. the company ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. the company portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. the company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the company business activities: market, credit, capital and liquidity, operational and compliance and legal risk. capital and liquidity risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. the company currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-u.s. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is the execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the company capital base and franchise. the company risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. given the importance of effective risk management to the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. the company senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the company and business segments level. in recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the company risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification. the nature of the company risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure includes the board; the audit committee and the risk committee of the board; the frc; senior management oversight, including the chief executive officer, the chief risk officer, the chief financial officer, the chief legal officer and the chief compliance officer; the internal audit department; independent risk management functions (including the market risk department, credit risk management, the corporate treasury department and the operational risk department) and company control groups (including the human resources department, the legal and compliance division, the tax department and the financial control group), and various other risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across the company business segments. the board has oversight for the company enterprise risk management framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that the company risks are managed in a sound manner. historically, the board had authorized the audit committee, which is comprised solely of independent directors, to oversee risk management. effective january 1, 2010, the board established another standing committee, the risk committee, which is comprised solely of non-management directors, to assist the board in the oversight of (i) the company risk governance structure, (ii) the company risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding market, credit and liquidity and funding risk, (iii) the company risk tolerance and (iv) the 89 table of contents performance of the chief risk officer. the audit committee continues to review the major operational, franchise, reputational, legal and compliance risk exposures of the company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposure. the risk committee, audit committee and chief risk officer report to the full board on a regular basis. the board has also authorized the frc, a management committee appointed and chaired by the chief executive officer that includes the most senior officers of the company, including the chief risk officer, chief legal officer and chief financial officer, to oversee the company global risk management structure. the frc responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal, operational, franchise and regulatory risk matters and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. the frc reports to the full board, the audit committee and the risk committee through the company chief risk officer. the chief risk officer, a member of the frc who reports to the chief executive officer, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves certain excessions of company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the board, the audit committee and the risk committee, as appropriate. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the audit committee and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. the risk management functions and the company control groups are independent of the company business units, assist senior management and the frc in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. the company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the company risk management and monitoring systems and processes. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the frc; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. each of the company business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. the company control groups work with business segment control groups (including the operations division and information technology division) to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the company and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than capital and liquidity risk). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company market risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. 90 table of contents market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business where the substantial majority of the company var for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within the global wealth management group. asset management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the company var system. limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the risk committee and the board. risk and capital management initiatives. during 2009, the company continued to enhance its market risk management framework to address the severe stresses observed in global markets during the recent economic downturn (see executive summary global market and economic conditions in fiscal 2009 part ii, item 7, herein). the company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario analysis, and refined its market risk limit framework. in conjunction with these risk measurement enhancements, a proprietary methodology called stress var ( s-var ) was developed to comprehensively measure the company market and credit risks. s-var simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data and attempts to capture the different liquidities of various types of general and specific risks, as well as event and default risks particularly relevant for credit portfolios. s-var, while still evolving, is becoming an important metric for the company risk appetite assessment and its capital allocation framework. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during 2009, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and other trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments ( e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed corporate debt, investment grade corporate debt and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). positions in 91 table of contents non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-u.s. dollar-denominated financial instruments. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. these changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. the market risk department independently reviews the company trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing var and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. the company trading businesses and the market risk department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. net exposure, defined as the potential loss to the company over a period of time in the event of default of a referenced asset, assuming zero recovery, is one key risk measure the company employs to standardize the aggregation of market risk exposures across cash and derivative products. stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the market risk department. var . the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations . the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily 92 table of contents changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors ); and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk, interest rate risk and credit spread risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. market risks that are incorporated in the var model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. the var model also captures certain correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks between corporate debt and related credit derivatives. as a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the company var model uses monte carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products ( i.e. , corporate bonds, loans and credit derivatives). the company var models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. the company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of var methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. var is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. var for 2009 . the table below presents the company trading, non-trading and aggregate var for each of the company primary market risk exposures as of december 31, 2009, december 31, 2008 and november 30, 2008, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the company trading businesses. this measure of var incorporates most of the company trading-related market risks. however, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. aggregate var also incorporates certain non-trading risks, including (a) the interest rate risk generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions, (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the company and (c) corporate loan exposures that are awaiting distribution to the market. 93 table of contents investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the var results presented below. aggregate var also excludes the credit spread risk generated by the company funding liabilities and the interest rate risk associated with approximately $7.7 billion of certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. the credit spread risk sensitivity of the company mark-to-market funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $11 million for each +1 basis point (or 1/100th of a percentage point) widening in the company credit spread level as of both december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. since the var statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days. var does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the var amount. the table below presents the company 95%/one-day var: table 1: 95% total var 95%/one-day var for 2009 95%/one-day var for fiscal 2008 95%/one-day var for the one month ended december 31, 2008 primary market risk category dec. 31, 2009 average high low nov. 30, 2008 average high low dec. 31, 2008 average high low (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 109 $ 105 $ 122 $ 89 $ 98 $ 69 $ 101 $ 42 $ 109 $ 107 $ 121 $ 95 equity price 23 21 36 14 23 35 53 17 15 18 27 14 foreign exchange rate 25 20 47 7 14 25 40 12 11 13 16 11 commodity price 24 24 38 18 23 35 44 22 36 31 37 24 less diversification benefit(1) (46 ) (51 ) (94 ) (31 ) (54 ) (66 ) (124 ) (15 ) (54 ) (56 ) (80 ) (42 ) total trading var $ 135 $ 119 $ 149 $ 97 $ 104 $ 98 $ 114 $ 78 $ 117 $ 113 $ 121 $ 102 total non-trading var $ 100 $ 102 $ 129 $ 58 $ 67 $ 53 $ 96 $ 29 $ 68 $ 73 $ 81 $ 67 total trading and non-trading var $ 187 $ 165 $ 206 $ 119 $ 135 $ 115 $ 143 $ 82 $ 144 $ 143 $ 152 $ 131 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company trading var at december 31, 2009 was $135 million compared with $117 million and $104 million at december 31, 2008 and november 30, 2008, respectively. non-trading var at december 31, 2009 increased to $100 million from $68 million and $67 million at december 31, 2008 and november 30, 2008, respectively. aggregate var at december 31, 2009 was $187 million compared with $144 million and $135 million at december 31, 2008 and november 30, 2008, respectively. average trading var for 2009 increased to $119 million from $113 million for the one month ended december 31, 2008 and $98 million for fiscal 2008. average non-trading var for 2009 increased to $102 million from $73 million for the one month ended december 31, 2008 and $53 million for fiscal 2008. average total var for 2009 increased to $165 million from $143 million for the one month ended december 31, 2008 and $115 million for fiscal 2008. the var increases for 2009 were primarily driven by increased exposure to interest rate and credit sensitive products across the trading and non-trading portfolios. the trading portfolio also experienced increases due to increased equity and foreign currency exposure. additionally, the company var for 2009 was affected by higher market volatilities over the period, as explained below. 94 table of contents var statistics under varying assumptions. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. the extreme market volatilities in the latter part of 2008 had a significant impact on var in 2009. the impact varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated and the confidence level. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 2 presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four-year versus one-year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations. both the average four-year var and the average one-year var for 2009 are sensitive to the high market volatilities experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008. however, we expect the one-year var to decline relative to the four-year var in the coming months, as the highly volatile period in the fourth quarter of 2008 will remain in the four-year var, but will no longer be a factor in the one-year var. table 2: average 95% and 99% trading var with four-year/one-year historical time series average 95%/one-day var for 2009 average 99%/one-day var for 2009 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 105 $ 134 $ 218 $ 248 equity price 21 26 31 38 foreign exchange rate 20 35 41 62 commodity price 24 30 43 62 less: diversification benefit(1) (51 ) (63 ) (97 ) (138 ) trading var $ 119 $ 162 $ 236 $ 272 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. 95 table of contents distribution of var statistics and net revenues for 2009. as shown in table 1, the company average 95%/one-day trading var for 2009 was $119 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day trading var for 2009. the most frequently occurring value was between $112 million and $115 million, while for approximately 93% of trading days during the year var ranged between $103 million and $139 million. 96 table of contents as shown in table 1, the company average 95%/one-day trading var for the one month ended december 31, 2008 was $113 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day trading var for the one month ended december 31, 2008. the most frequently occurring value was between $115 million and $118 million, while for approximately 70% of trading days during the month var ranged between $109 million and $118 million. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. for days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% var statistic, the company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the var model accuracy relative to realized trading results. the company incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 95%/one-day trading var on one day during 2009 and three days during the month ended december 31, 2008. the company bases its var calculations on the long term (or unconditional) distribution with four years of observations and therefore evaluates its risk from an historical perspective. the company is evaluating enhancements to the var model to make it more responsive to more recent market conditions, while maintaining a longer-term perspective. 97 table of contents the histograms below show the distribution of daily net trading revenue during 2009 and the one month ended december 31, 2008, respectively, for the company trading businesses (including net interest and non-agency commissions but excluding certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). during 2009 and the one month ended december 31, 2008, the company experienced net trading losses on 38 days and 14 days, respectively. the loss days observed during december 2008 were driven predominately by increased levels of volatility realized in the market. 98 table of contents credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations. the company is exposed to two distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. the company incurs single name credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business and to a lesser extent through its lending activities in its global wealth management group. this type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. the company also incurs individual consumer credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities and through single-family residential prime mortgage loans in jumbo or home equity lines of credit ( heloc ) form. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of its businesses generates unique credit risks, and credit risk management establishes company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure both within and across business segments. the credit limits framework is one of the primary tools used to evaluate and manage credit risk levels across the company and is calibrated within the company risk tolerance. the credit limits framework includes single name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and product type. credit risk management is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure is managed by credit risk management and through various risk committees, whose membership includes credit risk management. accordingly, credit risk management also works closely with the market risk department to monitor risk exposures, including margin loans, mortgage loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. 99 table of contents institutional securities activities. corporate lending . in connection with certain of its institutional securities business activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. such loans and lending commitments can generally be classified as either relationship-driven or event-driven. relationship-driven loans and lending commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. the commitments associated with relationship-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. the borrowers of relationship-driven lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. the company may hedge its exposures in connection with relationship-driven transactions. event-driven loans and lending commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions. the commitments associated with these event-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. in addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the company portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. the borrower ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. the borrowers of event-driven lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. the company risk manages its exposures in connection with event-driven transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging. securitized products. while new activity has been reduced from historical levels, the company may extend short or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending commitments that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in actual or underlying collateral value. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and hedging purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. other. in addition to the activities noted above, there are other credit risks managed by credit risk management and various business areas within institutional securities. the company incurs credit risk through margin and collateral transactions with clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. certain risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those respective areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. in addition, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. 100 table of contents analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. in order to protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, credit risk management analyzes all material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. credit risk management assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers. these credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. credit ratings of bb+ or below are considered non-investment grade. additionally, credit risk management evaluates the relative position of the company particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure corporate lending. the following tables present information about the company corporate funded loans and lending commitments as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. the total corporate lending exposure column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. fair value of corporate lending exposure represents the fair value of loans that have been drawn by the borrower and lending commitments that were outstanding as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008 for both relationship-driven and event-driven lending transactions. as discussed above, these loans and lending commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the company. as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $6.5 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $9.5 billion and $9.4 billion, respectively. as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of lending commitments outstanding was $47.9 billion and $43.9 billion, respectively. in connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges (which include single name, sector and index hedges) with a notional amount of $25.8 billion and $35.7 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $64.0 billion and $60.7 billion as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, respectively. 101 table of contents the tables below show the company credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and lending commitments as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: corporate lending commitments and funded loans at december 31, 2009 years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate lending exposure at fair value(3) corporate lending commitments(4) credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 542 $ 233 $ $ $ 775 $ $ 775 aa 3,141 4,354 275 7,770 80 7,690 a 3,116 9,796 1,129 548 14,589 1,918 12,671 bbb 4,272 16,191 3,496 164 24,123 4,548 19,575 investment grade 11,071 30,574 4,900 712 47,257 6,546 40,711 non-investment grade 749 6,525 6,097 3,322 16,693 9,517 7,176 total $ 11,820 $ 37,099 $ 10,997 $ 4,034 $ 63,950 $ 16,063 $ 47,887 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by credit risk management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total corporate lending exposure represents the company potential loss assuming the fair value of funded loans and lending commitments were zero. (3) the company corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $15.6 billion of funded loans and $0.4 billion of lending commitments recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition as of december 31, 2009. the company corporate lending exposure carried at amortized cost includes $850 million of funded loans recorded in receivables other loans in the consolidated statements of financial condition. (4) amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the company consolidated statements of financial condition. corporate lending commitments and funded loans at december 31, 2008 years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate lending exposure at fair value(3) corporate lending commitments(4) credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 842 $ 114 $ 1,374 $ $ 2,330 $ 67 $ 2,263 aa 2,685 718 3,321 73 6,797 33 6,764 a 4,899 5,321 5,892 69 16,181 2,291 13,890 bbb 2,745 7,722 8,299 255 19,021 5,037 13,984 investment grade 11,171 13,875 18,886 397 44,329 7,428 36,901 non-investment grade 1,144 3,433 5,301 6,516 16,394 9,389 7,005 total $ 12,315 $ 17,308 $ 24,187 $ 6,913 $ 60,723 $ 16,817 $ 43,906 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by credit risk management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (2) total corporate lending exposure represents the company potential loss assuming the fair value of funded loans and lending commitments were zero. (3) the company corporate lending exposure at fair value includes $19.9 billion of funded loans and $3.1 billion of lending commitments recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition as of december 31, 2008. (4) amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the company consolidated statements of financial condition. 102 table of contents event-driven loans and lending commitments as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above as of december 31, 2009 is event-driven exposure of $5.6 billion composed of funded loans of $2.8 billion and lending commitments of $2.8 billion. included in the $5.6 billion of event-driven exposure as of december 31, 2009 were $3.7 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above as of december 31, 2008 is event-driven exposure of $9.3 billion composed of funded loans of $3.4 billion and lending commitments of $5.9 billion. included in the $9.3 billion of event-driven exposure as of december 31, 2008 were $5.0 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. activity associated with the corporate event-driven lending exposure during 2009 was as follows (dollars in millions): event-driven lending exposures at december 31, 2008 $ 9,327 closed commitments 3,259 withdrawn commitments (267 ) net reductions, primarily through distributions (6,708 ) mark-to-market adjustments 10 event-driven lending exposures at december 31, 2009 $ 5,621 credit exposure derivatives. the tables below present a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008. fair value is presented in the final column net of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2009(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 852 $ 2,026 $ 3,876 $ 9,331 $ (6,616 ) $ 9,469 $ 9,082 aa 6,469 7,855 6,600 15,071 (25,576 ) 10,419 8,614 a 8,018 10,712 7,990 22,739 (38,971 ) 10,488 9,252 bbb 3,032 4,193 2,947 7,524 (8,971 ) 8,725 5,902 non-investment grade 2,773 3,331 2,113 4,431 (4,534 ) 8,114 6,525 total $ 21,144 $ 28,117 $ 23,526 $ 59,096 $ (84,668 ) $ 47,215 $ 39,375 (1) fair values shown represent the company net exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include listed derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by credit risk management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 103 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2008(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 1,928 $ 3,588 $ 6,235 $ 16,623 $ (11,060 ) $ 17,314 $ 15,849 aa 10,447 13,133 16,589 40,423 (63,498 ) 17,094 15,018 a 7,150 7,514 7,805 21,752 (31,025 ) 13,196 12,034 bbb 4,666 7,414 4,980 8,614 (6,571 ) 19,103 14,101 non-investment grade 8,219 8,163 5,416 7,341 (12,597 ) 16,542 12,131 total $ 32,410 $ 39,812 $ 41,025 $ 94,753 $ (124,751 ) $ 83,249 $ 69,133 (1) fair values shown represent the company net exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include listed derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by credit risk management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity as of december 31, 2009, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2009 years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 11,958 $ 19,556 $ 20,564 $ 57,240 $ (76,255 ) $ 33,063 $ 29,444 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 3,859 916 201 40 (1,994 ) 3,022 2,699 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,987 1,023 441 697 (2,065 ) 2,083 1,109 commodity forwards, options and swaps 3,340 6,622 2,320 1,119 (4,354 ) 9,047 6,123 total $ 21,144 $ 28,117 $ 23,526 $ 59,096 $ (84,668 ) $ 47,215 $ 39,375 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 104 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased at december 31, 2009(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 6,054 $ 11,442 $ 11,795 $ 32,133 $ (40,743 ) $ 20,681 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 3,665 647 201 72 (1,705 ) 2,880 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 4,528 2,547 1,253 1,150 (5,860 ) 3,618 commodity forwards, options and swaps 3,727 4,668 1,347 975 (5,336 ) 5,381 total $ 17,974 $ 19,304 $ 14,596 $ 34,330 $ (53,644 ) $ 32,560 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity as of december 31, 2008, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2008 years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 8,914 $ 22,965 $ 36,497 $ 91,468 $ (107,667 ) $ 52,177 $ 45,841 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 8,465 2,363 320 68 (3,882 ) 7,334 6,409 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 4,333 2,059 606 1,088 (4,991 ) 3,095 1,365 commodity forwards, options and swaps 10,698 12,425 3,602 2,129 (8,211 ) 20,643 15,518 total $ 32,410 $ 39,812 $ 41,025 $ 94,753 $ (124,751 ) $ 83,249 $ 69,133 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 105 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased at december 31, 2008(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 8,547 $ 17,356 $ 24,777 $ 55,237 $ (69,985 ) $ 35,932 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 7,355 1,660 377 159 (3,110 ) 6,441 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 2,661 3,446 1,685 1,858 (6,149 ) 3,501 commodity forwards, options and swaps 7,764 10,283 2,321 1,082 (8,302 ) 13,148 total $ 26,327 $ 32,745 $ 29,160 $ 58,336 $ (87,546 ) $ 59,022 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the company derivatives (both listed and otc), on a net of counterparty and cash collateral basis, as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product category: at december 31, 2009 at december 31, 2008 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 33,307 $ 20,911 $ 52,391 $ 36,146 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 3,022 2,824 7,334 6,425 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 3,619 7,371 8,738 8,920 commodity forwards, options and swaps 9,133 7,103 20,955 17,063 total $ 49,081 $ 38,209 $ 89,418 $ 68,554 each category of derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the company determines the fair values recorded in the above tables using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7, herein and notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. credit derivatives. a credit derivative is a contract between a seller (guarantor) and buyer (beneficiary) of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity. the beneficiary pays a periodic premium (typically quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. if a credit event occurs, the guarantor is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation and payment moratorium. debt restructurings are also considered a credit event in some cases. in certain transactions referenced to a portfolio of referenced entities or asset-backed securities, deductibles and caps may limit the guarantor obligations. 106 table of contents the company trades in a variety of derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities. the company is an active market-maker in the credit derivatives markets. as a market-maker, the company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manage any residual credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. the company also trades and takes credit risk in credit default swap form on a proprietary basis. further, the company uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures during the periods presented. the company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. a majority of the company counterparties are banks, broker-dealers, insurance, and other financial institutions and monolines. contracts with these counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events but do include counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in additional collateral being required by the company. for further information on the company exposure to monolines, see certain factors affecting results of operations monoline insurers herein. the master agreements with these monoline counterparties are generally unsecured, and the few ratings-based triggers (if any) generally provide the company the ability to terminate only upon significant downgrade. as with all derivative contracts, the company considers counterparty credit risk in the valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation adjustments as appropriate. the following table summarizes the key characteristics of the company credit derivative portfolio by counterparty as of december 31, 2009. the fair values shown are before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting: at december 31, 2009 fair values(1) notionals(2) receivable payable beneficiary guarantor (dollars in millions) banks and securities firms $ 125,352 $ 115,855 $ 2,294,658 $ 2,213,761 insurance and other financial institutions 15,422 9,310 194,353 229,630 monolines 4,903 22,886 non-financial entities 387 69 3,990 3,634 total $ 146,064 $ 125,234 $ 2,515,887 $ 2,447,025 (1) amounts shown are presented before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting. the company credit default swaps are classified in both level 2 and level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. approximately 16% of receivable fair values and 11% of payable fair values represent level 3 amounts. (2) as part of an industry-wide effort to reduce the total notional amount of outstanding offsetting credit derivative trades, the company participated in novating credit default swap contracts with external counterparties to a central clearinghouse during 2009. country exposure. as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, primarily based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 5% and 8%, respectively, of the company credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivative contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 1% and 2%, respectively, of the company credit exposure. the company defines emerging markets to include generally all countries where the economic, legal and political systems are transitional and in the process of developing into more transparent and accountable systems that are consistent with advanced countries. 107 table of contents the following tables show the company percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by country as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008: corporate lending exposure country at december 31, 2009 at december 31, 2008 united states 65 % 68 % united kingdom 7 7 germany 6 5 other 22 20 total 100 % 100 % otc derivative products country at december 31, 2009 at december 31, 2008 united states 31 % 35 % cayman islands 14 10 united kingdom 8 9 italy 7 6 germany 4 3 france 3 3 jersey 3 3 ireland 3 2 japan 2 3 other 25 26 total 100 % 100 % industry exposure. the company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivative contracts. the following tables show the company percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by industry as of december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008: corporate lending exposure industry at december 31, 2009 at december 31, 2008 utilities-related 15 % 13 % consumer-related entities 10 10 financial institutions 9 10 telecommunications 8 11 media-related entities 8 7 general industrials 7 7 technology-related industries 6 8 healthcare-related entities 6 5 energy-related entities 6 5 other 25 24 total 100 % 100 % 108 table of contents otc derivative products industry at december 31, 2009 at december 31, 2008 financial institutions 41 % 38 % sovereign entities 19 15 insurance 9 13 utilities-related entities 7 6 energy-related entities 3 3 transportation-related entities 3 11 other 18 14 total 100 % 100 % global wealth management group activities. margin lending. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk. additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. at december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, there were approximately $5.3 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, of customer margin loans outstanding. the company, through agreements with citi relating to the formation of mssb, retains certain credit risk for margin and non-purpose loans that are held at citigroup global markets inc. in its capacity as clearing broker for certain mssb clients. the related loans are generally subject to the same oversight as similar margin and non-purpose loans held by the company and its subsidiaries. non-purpose securities-based lending. non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. the company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies. underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. commercial lending. the global wealth management group provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-size domestic businesses, with a suite of products that includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. clients are required to submit a credit application and financial statements to a centralized credit processing platform, and underwriting professionals recommend a lending structure following an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. for standard transactions, credit requests are approved via signature of independent credit professionals, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by independent credit professionals. the facility is risk rated and upon credit approval and loan closing is closely monitored through active account management and covenant compliance certificates. 109 table of contents consumer lending activities. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including heloc ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g., fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. historically all mortgages were originated to be sold or securitized. eligible conforming loans are currently sold to the government-sponsored enterprises while most jumbo and heloc loans will be held for investment in the company portfolio. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events ( e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets). the company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities ( e.g., sales and trading) and support functions ( e.g., information technology and facilities management). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. the goal of the company operational risk management framework is to establish company-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. operational risk policies establish a framework to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the framework continually responds to changing regulatory and business environment landscape. as a foundation for the basel ii advanced measurement approach, an enhanced risk-based capital model has been developed for the calculation of capital related to operational risk. this model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements, including internal and external operational incidents, metrics, risk and control self-assessments, and scenario analysis. the operational risk oversight committee, a company-wide committee, is chaired by the company chief risk officer and assists the frc in executing its responsibilities for oversight of operational risk, including evaluating assessments of risk exposure, reviewing the company significant operational risk exposures, recommending and overseeing company-wide remediation efforts, review and evaluation of current event risk issues, and establishing company-wide operational risk program standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. the company operational risk manager oversees, monitors, measures, analyzes and reports on operational risk across the company. the operational risk manager is independent of the business segments and is supported by the company-wide operational risk department. the operational risk manager is also responsible for facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the company-wide operational risk program. the operational risk department works with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the company globally. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. the business managers, generally, maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. as new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. the operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports with senior management within each business. each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management. oversight of operational risk is provided by business segment and regional risk committees and the operational risk oversight committee. 110 table of contents business continuity management is an ongoing program of analysis and planning that helps ensure a recovery strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing. the company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. information security procedures are designed to protect the company information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. these procedures cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable devices. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access. the company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. legal risk. legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the legal and compliance division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 111 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be substantially affected negatively by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, business mix and actual and perceived levels of government support. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. in addition, we may be required to pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. the rating agencies are considering the impact of the dodd-frank act resolution authority provisions on large banking institutions and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent 23 table of contents holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding company subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economy. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile during the past three years, with volatility reaching unprecedented levels in the fall of 2008 and into 2009. in particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. renewed turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economy could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see qualitative and quantitative disclosure about market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. the results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of political and economic conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income and credit markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate investments; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital requirements), and legal actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the company acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including mssb and with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors and technological changes; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic 24 table of contents conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business segment. we may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. morgan stanley risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and morgan stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as conditions in the global financial markets and global economy that prevailed from 2008 into 2009. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. we also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see qualitative and quantitative disclosure about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 25 table of contents we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. we incur credit risk in traded securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. defaults by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from other internal or external events (e.g., internal or external fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). we may incur operational risk across our full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading), support functions ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing) or other strategic decisions ( e.g. , the integration of mssb or other joint ventures, acquisitions or strategic alliances). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. 26 table of contents our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact on such systems. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, or adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, electrical, environmental, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal and regulatory risk. legal and compliance risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements or litigation. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see risk management legal risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. as a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we operate. we also face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides a bounty to whistleblowers who present the sec with information related to securities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this bounty, we may face an increased number of investigations by the sec. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, or are currently considering to enact, financial market reforms that result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, we are subject to significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime which will impose especially high capital and liquidity requirements, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. additional restrictions on our activities would result if we were to no longer meet certain capital or management requirements at the financial holding company level. certain portions of the dodd-frank act were effective immediately, while other portions will be effective only following extended transition periods, but many of these changes could in the future materially impact the profitability of our businesses, the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. 27 table of contents the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for example, recently, the level of litigation activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from residential mortgage claims that have not yet been notified to us or are not yet determined to be material. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the federal reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and europe; we own transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we have a noncontrolling interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be 28 table of contents available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. under the bhc act, there is a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act by the end of any extensions of the bhc act grace period, which would terminate in all events on the fifth anniversary of our becoming a bank holding company. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for example, the u.s. and the eu have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. in addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our domestic subsidiary banks and their affiliates. risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record 29 table of contents properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. these developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see competition and supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, or employee compensation may be made subject to special taxation (as it has already been done in some jurisdictions, including the u.k. and france), which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange 30 table of contents controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as terrorist acts or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide and the fcpa. a violation of a sanction or embargo program or of the fcpa could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, joint ventures (including mssb) or strategic alliances (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 96 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. overview. management believes effective risk management is vital to the success of the company business activities. accordingly, the company employs an enterprise risk management ( erm ) framework to integrate the diverse roles of the risk departments into a holistic enterprise structure and to facilitate the incorporation of risk evaluation into decision-making processes across the company. the company has policies and procedures in place to identify, assess, monitor and manage the significant risks involved in the activities of its institutional securities, global wealth management group and asset management business segments and support functions as well as at the holding company level. principal risks involved in the company business activities include market, credit, capital and liquidity, operational, and compliance and legal risk. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is the execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the company capital base and franchise. five key principles underlie this philosophy: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. the fast-paced, complex, and constantly-evolving nature of global financial services requires that the company maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to ongoing review and enhancement. to help ensure the efficacy of risk management, which is an essential component of the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and the appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk governance structure. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, and effective communication of risk matters to senior management and across the company. the nature of the company risks, coupled with its risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure comprises the board of directors; the risk committee of the board ( brc ) and the audit committee of the board ( bac ); the firm risk committee ( frc ); senior management oversight (including the chief executive officer, chief risk officer, chief financial officer, chief legal officer and chief compliance officer); the internal audit department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the company business segments. a risk governance structure composed of independent but complementary entities facilitates efficient and comprehensive supervision of the company risk exposures and processes. morgan stanley board of directors. the board has oversight for the company erm framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that the company risks are managed in a sound manner. the board has authorized the committees within the erm framework to help facilitate its risk oversight responsibilities. risk committee of the board. the brc, appointed by the board, is composed of non-management directors. the brc is responsible for assisting the board in the oversight of the company risk governance structure; the company risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding market, credit and liquidity, and funding risk; the company risk tolerance; and the performance of the chief risk officer. the brc reports to the full board on a regular basis. audit committee of the board. the bac, appointed by the board, is composed of independent directors (pursuant to the company corporate governance policies and applicable new york stock exchange and securities and exchange commission ( sec ) rules) and is responsible for oversight of certain aspects of risk management, including review of the major operational, franchise, reputational, legal and compliance risk exposures of the company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposure, as well as guidelines and policies that govern the process for risk assessment and risk management. the bac reports to the full board on a regular basis. 96 table of contents firm risk committee. the board has also authorized the frc, a management committee appointed and chaired by the chief executive officer, that includes the most senior officers of the company, including the chief risk officer, chief legal officer and chief financial officer. the frc responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal, compliance, operational, franchise and regulatory risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. the frc reports to the full board, the bac and the brc through the company chief risk officer. chief risk officer. the chief risk officer, who reports to the chief executive officer and the brc oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves exceptions to the company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the board, the bac and the brc, as appropriate. the chief risk officer also coordinates with the compensation, management development and succession committee of the board to evaluate whether the company compensation arrangements encourage unnecessary or excessive risk-taking and whether risks arising from the company compensation arrangements are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the company. internal audit department. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the bac and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. independent risk management functions. the independent risk management functions (market risk, credit risk, operational risk and corporate treasury departments) are independent of the company business units. these groups assist senior management and the frc in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. further discussion about the responsibilities of the risk management functions may be found below under market risk, credit risk, and operational risk and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. control groups. the company control groups include the human resources department, the legal and compliance division, the operations division, global technology and data, the tax department and finance. the company control groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business segment market, credit and operational risk profile; sales practices; reputation; legal enforceability; and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the company and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review. divisional risk committees. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the frc; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. stress value-at-risk. during 2010, the company continued to enhance its market and credit risk management framework to address the severe stresses observed in global markets during the economic downturn. the company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario analysis, and further refined its market and credit risk limit framework. stress value-at-risk ( s-var ), a proprietary methodology that 97 table of contents comprehensively measures the company market and credit risks, was further refined and is now an important metric used in establishing the company risk appetite and its capital allocation framework. s-var simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data and attempts to capture the different liquidities of various types of general and specific risks. additionally, s-var captures event and default risks that are particularly relevant for credit portfolios. risk management process. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (capital and liquidity risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading, investing and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business segment where the substantial majority of the company var for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading related market risk within the global wealth management group. asset management incurs principally non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the company var and scenario analysis systems. these limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. market risk is also monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the frc, the brc, and the board of directors. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during 2010, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and other trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments ( e.g ., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). 98 table of contents the activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-u.s. dollar-denominated financial instruments. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. these changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g ., futures, forwards, swaps and options). hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company across all divisions worldwide. additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. var. the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations. the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans and related derivatives. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. 99 table of contents the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to equity and commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates as well as linear exposures to implied volatility risks. the var model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives as well as certain basis risks ( e.g ., corporate debt and related credit derivatives). among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks and portfolio assets. one key element of the var model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. var is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. the company var model evolves over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. the company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of var methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. additionally, the company continues to evaluate enhancements to the var model to make it more responsive to more recent market conditions while maintaining a longer-term perspective. var for 2010. the table below presents the company trading, non-trading and aggregate var for each of the company primary market risk exposures at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk. a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in var, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different var results from those produced using more precise measures. the counterparty portfolio, which reflects adjustments, net of hedges, relating to counterparty credit risk and other market risks, was reclassified from non-trading var into trading var at january 1, 2010. this reclassification reflects regulatory considerations surrounding the company conversion to a financial holding company and the trading book nature of the company counterparty risk-hedging activities. aggregate var was not affected by this change; however, this reclassification increased trading var and decreased non-trading var for the year ended december 31, 2009. since the reported var statistics are estimates based on historical position and market data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days. var does not predict the magnitude of losses that, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the var amount. 100 table of contents the table below presents the company 95%/one-day var: table 1: 95% total var 95% one-day var for 2010 95% one-day var for 2009 primary market risk category period end average high low period end average high low (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 102 $ 129 $ 147 $ 100 $ 142 $ 128 $ 149 $ 106 equity price 30 28 52 19 23 21 36 14 foreign exchange rate 21 24 50 9 26 20 47 7 commodity price 30 28 36 21 24 24 38 18 less: diversification benefit(1) (65 ) (70 ) (120 ) (32 ) (57 ) (55 ) (108 ) (34 ) total trading var $ 118 $ 139 $ 165 $ 117 $ 158 $ 138 $ 162 $ 111 total non-trading var $ 77 $ 82 $ 137 $ 57 $ 67 $ 63 $ 89 $ 33 aggregate var $ 146 $ 173 $ 217 $ 143 $ 187 $ 163 $ 205 $ 119 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. the company average trading var for 2010 is relatively unchanged at $139 million compared with $138 million for 2009. increased equity, foreign exchange and commodity risks were offset by increased diversification in the trading portfolios. the company average non-trading var for 2010 increased to $82 million compared with $63 million for 2009. the company average aggregate var for 2010 was $173 million compared with $163 million for 2009. the increase in both non-trading and aggregate var was due primarily to the company investment in invesco, which was sold in november 2010, as well as increased interest rate sensitivity of deposits in the declining rate environment. var statistics under varying assumptions. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. the impact varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated and the confidence level. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 2 presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four-year versus one-year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations. the four-year var measure continues to be sensitive to the high market volatilities experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008, while the one-year var is no longer affected by this phenomenon. consequently, the four-year var is a more conservative approximation of the company portfolio risk. 101 table of contents table 2: 95% and 99% average trading var with four-year / one-year historical time series table 2: 95% and 99% average trading var with four-year / one-year historical time series 95% average one-day var for 2010 99% average one-day var for 2010 primary market risk category four-year factor history one-year factor history four-year factor history one-year factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 129 $ 95 $ 264 $ 164 equity price 28 25 41 37 foreign exchange rate 24 24 42 38 commodity price 28 22 47 32 less: diversification benefit(1) (70 ) (56 ) (120 ) (93 ) total trading var $ 139 $ 110 $ 274 $ 178 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between total var and the sum of the vars for the four risk categories. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category. distribution of var statistics and net revenues for 2010. as shown in table 1, the company average 95%/one-day trading var for 2010 was $139 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day trading var for 2010. the most frequently occurring value was between $137 million and $141 million, while for approximately 81% of trading days during the year var ranged between $129 million and $149 million. 102 table of contents one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenues is to compare the var with actual trading revenues. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the var model could be questioned. accordingly, the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. for days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% var statistic, the company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the var model accuracy relative to realized trading results. the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenues during 2010 for the company trading businesses (these figures include revenues from the counterparty portfolio and also include net interest and non-agency commissions but exclude certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenues credited to the trading businesses). during 2010, the company experienced net trading losses on 38 days, with zero excesses of the 95%/one-day trading var. non-trading risks. aggregate var currently incorporates certain non-trading risks, such as the interest rate risk generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions and public company equity positions recorded as investments by the company. investments made by the company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the aggregate var results. var is one method of assessing the risk of the company non-trading portfolio; however, due to a variety of factors ( e.g. , trading restrictions, illiquidity), sensitivity analysis may be a better approach to evaluating this risk. reflected below is a sensitivity analysis covering substantially all of the company non-trading risk. 103 table of contents counterparty exposure related to the company own spreads. the credit spread risk relating to the company own mark-to-market derivative counterparty exposure is managed separately from var. the credit spread risk sensitivity of this exposure corresponds to an increase in value of approximately $8 million for each +1 basis point widening in the company credit spread level for both december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. funding liabilities. the credit spread risk and interest rate risk associated with non-mark-to-market funding liabilities related to fixed and other non-trading assets are also excluded from var. at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, non-mark-to-market funding liabilities related to fixed and other non-trading assets were approximately $3.5 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively. the $4.2 billion reduction reflects a decision by the company to swap this amount of fixed-rate debt to a floating rate and is now included in the non-trading var. the company var does not capture the credit spread risk sensitivity of the company mark-to-market funding liabilities, which corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $14 million and $11 million for each +1 basis point widening in the company credit spread level at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, respectively. the increased credit spread sensitivity is driven by greater issuances of structured notes. interest rate risk sensitivity on income from continuing operations. the company measures the interest rate risk of certain assets and liabilities not included in trading var by calculating the hypothetical sensitivity of income from continuing operations (before income taxes) to potential changes in the level of interest rates over the next 12 months. this sensitivity analysis includes positions that are mark-to-market as well as positions that are accounted for on an accrual basis. given the currently low interest rate environment, the company uses the following two interest rate scenarios to quantify the company sensitivity: instantaneous parallel shocks of +100 basis points and +200 basis points to all yield curves simultaneously. with respect to mssb, the company assessment of interest rate risk focuses on its economic investment in mssb (the company 51% share of mssb income from continuing operations before income taxes). these results can be seen in the table below. december 31, 2010 +100 basis points +200 basis points (dollars in millions) impact on income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 560 $ 1,084 impact on income from continuing operations before income taxes, excluding citi interest in mssb(1) 343 664 (1) amounts reflect the exclusion of the portion of income from continuing operations before income and taxes associated with mssb noncontrolling interest in the joint venture. for non-interest-bearing positions and for interest-sensitive positions that are not mark-to-market, the company measures the incremental impact of the funding expense or coupon accrual over the next 12 months. for interest rate-sensitive positions that are mark-to-market, the sensitivities include the income impact of the instantaneous yield curve shock. the income impact of the yield curve shock measures the present value over the life of the position. for interest rate derivatives that are perfect economic hedges to non-mark-to-market assets or liabilities, the disclosed sensitivities include only the impact of the coupon accrual mismatch. this treatment avoids the distorting effects of accounting differences between the hedge and the corresponding hedged instrument. the hypothetical model does not assume any growth, change in business focus, asset pricing philosophy or asset/liability funding mix and does not capture how the company would respond to significant changes in market 104 table of contents conditions. furthermore, the model does not reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term nor the actual effect on income from continuing operations before income taxes if such changes were to occur. investments. the company makes investments in both public and private companies, primarily in its institutional securities and asset management business segments. these investments are predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, the majority of which are for business facilitation purposes. the market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in asset values as shown in the table below. investments 10% sensitivity december 31, 2010 (dollars in millions) investments related to merchant banking activities: real estate funds $ 108 private equity and infrastructure funds 115 other investments: mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities co., ltd. $ 179 asset management hedge fund investments 169 other firm investments 344 credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations. the company incurs credit risk exposure to institutions and sophisticated investors through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including, but not limited to, entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. we incur credit risk in traded securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. the company incurs credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities and through single-family residential prime mortgage loans in conforming, nonconforming or home equity lines of credit ( heloc ) form. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of its businesses generates unique credit risks, and the credit risk management department establishes company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure both within and across business segments. the company employs a comprehensive and global credit limits framework as one of the primary tools used to evaluate and manage credit risk levels across the company. the credit limits framework is calibrated within the company risk tolerance and includes single name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and product type. the credit risk management department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure is managed by credit professionals and committees within the credit risk management department and through various risk committees, whose membership includes the credit risk management department. the credit risk management department also works closely with the market risk department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures, including margin loans, mortgage loans, and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. 105 table of contents see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the credit quality of the company financing receivables. institutional securities activities. corporate lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business segment activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected corporate clients. such loans and lending commitments can generally be classified as either relationship-driven or event-driven. relationship-driven loans and lending commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. commitments associated with relationship-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. the company may hedge its exposures in connection with relationship-driven transactions, and commitments may be subject to conditions, including financial covenants. event-driven loans and lending commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization activities. commitments associated with these event-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. in addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the company portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. the borrower ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. the company risk manages its exposures in connection with event-driven transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging. securitizations. the company may extend short- or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending commitments that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, commercial and industrial company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in the underlying collateral value. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and hedging purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets, net of cash collateral received. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. in addition to measuring and managing credit exposures referenced to the current fair value of derivative instruments, the company also measures and manages credit exposures referenced to potential exposure. potential exposure is an estimate of exposure, within a specified confidence level, that could be outstanding over time based on market movements. 106 table of contents other. in addition to the activities noted above, there are other credit risks managed by the credit risk management department and various business areas within the institutional securities business segment. the company incurs credit risk through margin and collateral transactions with clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. certain risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those respective areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. in order to protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, the credit risk management department ensures lending transactions and derivative exposures are analyzed, that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. the credit risk management department assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers, which reflect an assessment of an obligor probability of default. additionally, the credit risk management department evaluates the relative position of the company particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, financial covenants, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. credit exposure corporate lending. the following tables present information about the company corporate funded loans and lending commitments carried at fair value at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. the total corporate lending exposure column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. fair value of corporate lending exposure represents the fair value of loans that have been drawn by the borrower and lending commitments that were outstanding at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009 for both relationship-driven and event-driven lending transactions. as discussed above, these loans and lending commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the company. at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $3.9 billion and $6.5 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $6.8 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. in connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges (which include single name, sector and index hedges) with a notional amount of $21.0 billion and $25.8 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $69.2 billion and $64.0 billion at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, respectively. 107 table of contents the tables below show the company credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and lending commitments at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements: corporate lending commitments and funded loans at december 31, 2010 years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate lending exposure at fair value(3) corporate lending commitments(4) credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 351 $ 342 $ 50 $ $ 743 $ $ 743 aa 3,220 5,435 671 70 9,396 131 9,265 a 2,739 8,780 2,667 34 14,220 542 13,678 bbb 2,793 16,170 4,816 237 24,016 3,203 20,813 investment grade 9,103 30,727 8,204 341 48,375 3,876 44,499 non-investment grade 1,740 6,857 7,642 4,539 20,778 6,845 13,933 total $ 10,843 $ 37,584 $ 15,846 $ 4,880 $ 69,153 $ 10,721 $ 58,432 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by the credit risk management department. (2) total corporate lending exposure represents the company potential loss assuming the fair value of funded loans and lending commitments was zero. (3) the company corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $11.2 billion of funded loans and $0.5 billion of lending commitments recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2010. see notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for information on corporate loans and corporate lending commitments, respectively. (4) amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the company consolidated statements of financial condition. for syndications led by the company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. for syndications that the company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank. corporate lending commitments and funded loans at december 31, 2009 years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate lending exposure at fair value(3) corporate lending commitments(4) credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 542 $ 233 $ $ $ 775 $ $ 775 aa 3,141 4,354 275 7,770 80 7,690 a 3,116 9,796 1,129 548 14,589 1,918 12,671 bbb 4,272 16,191 3,496 164 24,123 4,548 19,575 investment grade 11,071 30,574 4,900 712 47,257 6,546 40,711 non-investment grade 749 6,525 6,097 3,322 16,693 9,517 7,176 total $ 11,820 $ 37,099 $ 10,997 $ 4,034 $ 63,950 $ 16,063 $ 47,887 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by the credit risk management department. (2) total corporate lending exposure represents the company potential loss assuming the fair value of funded loans and lending commitments was zero. (3) the company corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $15.6 billion of funded loans and $0.4 billion of lending commitments recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2009. the company corporate lending exposure carried at amortized cost includes $850 million of funded loans recorded in loans in the consolidated statements of financial condition. (4) amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the company consolidated statements of financial condition. 108 table of contents event-driven loans and lending commitments at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above at december 31, 2010 is event-driven exposure of $5.4 billion composed of funded loans of $1.3 billion and lending commitments of $4.1 billion. included in the $5.4 billion of event-driven exposure at december 31, 2010 were $4.9 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above at december 31, 2009 is event-driven exposure of $5.6 billion composed of funded loans of $2.8 billion and lending commitments of $2.8 billion. included in the $5.6 billion of event-driven exposure at december 31, 2009 were $3.7 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. activity associated with the corporate event-driven lending exposure during 2010 was as follows (dollars in millions): event-driven lending exposures at december 31, 2009 $ 5,621 closed commitments 3,636 net reductions, primarily through distributions (3,720 ) mark-to-market adjustments (128 ) event-driven lending exposures at december 31, 2010 $ 5,409 credit exposure derivatives. the tables below present a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of otc derivatives in a gain position at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. fair value is presented in the final column net, of collateral received (principally cash and u.s. government and agency securities): otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2010(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post- cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 802 $ 2,005 $ 1,242 $ 8,823 $ (5,906 ) $ 6,966 $ 6,683 aa 6,601 6,760 5,589 17,844 (27,801 ) 8,993 7,877 a 8,655 8,710 6,507 26,492 (36,397 ) 13,967 12,383 bbb 2,982 4,109 2,124 7,347 (9,034 ) 7,528 6,001 non-investment grade 2,628 3,231 1,779 4,456 (4,355 ) 7,739 5,348 total $ 21,668 $ 24,815 $ 17,241 $ 64,962 $ (83,493 ) $ 45,193 $ 38,292 (1) fair values shown represent the company net exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include listed derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by the company credit risk management department. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 109 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2009(1) years to maturity cross- maturity and cash collateral netting(3) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral credit rating(2) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 852 $ 2,026 $ 3,876 $ 9,331 $ (6,616 ) $ 9,469 $ 9,082 aa 6,469 7,855 6,600 15,071 (25,576 ) 10,419 8,614 a 8,018 10,712 7,990 22,739 (38,971 ) 10,488 9,252 bbb 3,032 4,193 2,947 7,524 (8,971 ) 8,725 5,902 non-investment grade 2,773 3,331 2,113 4,431 (4,534 ) 8,114 6,525 total $ 21,144 $ 28,117 $ 23,526 $ 59,096 $ (84,668 ) $ 47,215 $ 39,375 (1) fair values shown represent the company net exposure to counterparties related to the company otc derivative products. the table does not include listed derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the company. the table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the company lending activities. (2) obligor credit ratings are determined by the company credit risk management department. (3) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the following tables summarize the fair values of the company otc derivative products recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, by product category and maturity at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned: otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2010 years to maturity cross- maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post- cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 10,308 $ 17,447 $ 15,571 $ 62,224 $ (73,708 ) $ 31,842 $ 28,158 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 5,703 754 185 64 (2,984 ) 3,722 3,051 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 2,416 1,201 247 1,604 (2,587 ) 2,881 1,613 commodity forwards, options and swaps 3,241 5,413 1,238 1,070 (4,214 ) 6,748 5,470 total $ 21,668 $ 24,815 $ 17,241 $ 64,962 $ (83,493 ) $ 45,193 $ 38,292 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 110 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, at december 31, 2010(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 8,195 $ 11,451 $ 13,965 $ 35,460 $ (44,955 ) $ 24,116 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 6,688 680 332 79 (3,154 ) 4,625 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 4,768 2,886 1,362 1,161 (5,675 ) 4,502 commodity forwards, options and swaps 4,495 4,556 1,559 838 (5,442 ) 6,006 total $ 24,146 $ 19,573 $ 17,218 $ 37,538 $ (59,226 ) $ 39,249 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. otc derivative products financial instruments owned at december 31, 2009 years to maturity cross- maturity and cash collateral netting(1) net exposure post-cash collateral net exposure post- collateral product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 11,958 $ 19,556 $ 20,564 $ 57,240 $ (76,255 ) $ 33,063 $ 29,444 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 3,859 916 201 40 (1,994 ) 3,022 2,699 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 1,987 1,023 441 697 (2,065 ) 2,083 1,109 commodity forwards, options and swaps 3,340 6,622 2,320 1,119 (4,354 ) 9,047 6,123 total $ 21,144 $ 28,117 $ 23,526 $ 59,096 $ (84,668 ) $ 47,215 $ 39,375 (1) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. 111 table of contents otc derivative products financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, at december 31, 2009(1) years to maturity cross-maturity and cash collateral netting(2) total product type less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 6,054 $ 11,442 $ 11,795 $ 32,133 $ (40,743 ) $ 20,681 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 3,665 647 201 72 (1,705 ) 2,880 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 4,528 2,547 1,253 1,150 (5,860 ) 3,618 commodity forwards, options and swaps 3,727 4,668 1,347 975 (5,336 ) 5,381 total $ 17,974 $ 19,304 $ 14,596 $ 34,330 $ (53,644 ) $ 32,560 (1) since these amounts are liabilities of the company, they do not result in credit exposures. (2) amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists. the company derivatives (both listed and otc), on a net of counterparty and cash collateral basis, at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product category: at december 31, 2010 at december 31, 2009 product type assets liabilities assets liabilities (dollars in millions) interest rate and currency swaps, interest rate options, credit derivatives and other fixed income securities contracts $ 32,163 $ 24,743 $ 33,307 $ 20,911 foreign exchange forward contracts and options 3,722 4,625 3,022 2,824 equity securities contracts (including equity swaps, warrants and options) 7,865 10,939 3,619 7,371 commodity forwards, options and swaps 7,542 7,495 9,133 7,103 total $ 51,292 $ 47,802 $ 49,081 $ 38,209 each category of derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. instruments in each category can be denominated in u.s. dollars or in one or more non-u.s. currencies. the company determines the fair values recorded in the above tables using various pricing models. for a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies in part ii, item 7 herein and notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. credit derivatives. a credit derivative is a contract between a seller (guarantor) and buyer (beneficiary) of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity. the beneficiary pays a periodic premium (typically quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. if a credit event occurs, the guarantor is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation and payment moratorium. debt restructurings are also considered a credit event in some cases. in certain transactions referenced to a portfolio of referenced entities or asset-backed securities, deductibles and caps may limit the guarantor obligations. 112 table of contents the company trades in a variety of derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities. the company is an active market-maker in the credit derivatives markets. as a market-maker, the company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manage any residual credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. further, the company uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures during the periods presented. the company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. a majority of the company counterparties are banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions, and monolines. contracts with these counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events but do include counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in additional collateral being required by the company. for further information on the company exposure to monolines, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations significant items monoline insurers in part ii, item 7 herein. the master agreements with these monoline counterparties are generally unsecured, and the few ratings-based triggers (if any) generally provide the company the ability to terminate only upon significant downgrade. as with all derivative contracts, the company considers counterparty credit risk in the valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation adjustments as appropriate within principal transactions trading. the following tables summarize the key characteristics of the company credit derivative portfolio by counterparty at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. the fair values shown are before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting: at december 31, 2010 fair values(1) notionals receivable payable beneficiary guarantor (dollars in millions) banks and securities firms $ 96,551 $ 86,574 $ 2,037,326 $ 2,032,824 insurance and other financial institutions 10,954 8,679 277,714 257,180 monolines(2) 2,370 25,676 non-financial entities 259 373 2,920 4,247 total $ 110,134 $ 95,626 $ 2,343,636 $ 2,294,251 (1) the company credit default swaps are classified in both level 2 and level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. approximately 13% of receivable fair values and 8% of payable fair values represent level 3 amounts. (2) amounts do not include the effect of hedges of monoline derivative counterparty exposure. at december 31, 2009 fair values(1) notionals(2) receivable payable beneficiary guarantor (dollars in millions) banks and securities firms $ 125,352 $ 115,855 $ 2,294,658 $ 2,213,761 insurance and other financial institutions 15,422 9,310 194,353 229,630 monolines 4,903 22,886 non-financial entities 387 69 3,990 3,634 total $ 146,064 $ 125,234 $ 2,515,887 $ 2,447,025 (1) the company credit default swaps are classified in both level 2 and level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. approximately 16% of receivable fair values and 11% of payable fair values represent level 3 amounts. (2) as part of an industry-wide effort to reduce the total notional amount of outstanding offsetting credit derivative trades, the company participated in novating certain credit default swap contracts with external counterparties to a central clearinghouse during 2009. country exposure. at both december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, primarily based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 5% of the company credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate 113 table of contents loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivative contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than approximately 1% of the company credit exposure. the company defines emerging markets to include generally all countries where the economic, legal and political systems are transitional and in the process of developing into more transparent and accountable systems that are consistent with advanced countries. the following tables show the company percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by country at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009: corporate lending exposure(1) at december 31, 2010 at december 31, 2009 country united states 65 % 65 % united kingdom 7 7 germany 6 6 netherlands 2 2 canada 2 2 france 2 2 switzerland 2 2 cayman islands 2 2 luxembourg 2 2 other 10 10 total 100 % 100 % otc derivative products(1)(2) at december 31, 2010 at december 31, 2009 country united states 35 % 31 % cayman islands 11 14 united kingdom 9 8 italy 7 7 france 4 3 germany 3 4 japan 3 2 luxembourg 2 2 australia 2 2 chile 2 2 jersey 2 3 austria 2 2 netherlands 2 1 canada 2 2 switzerland 2 1 other 12 16 total 100 % 100 % (1) credit exposure amounts are based on the domicile of the counterparty. (2) credit exposure amounts do not reflect the offsetting benefit of financial instruments that the company utilizes to hedge credit exposure arising from otc derivative products. 114 table of contents industry exposure. the company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivative contracts. the following tables show the company percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by industry at december 31, 2010: corporate lending exposure at december 31, 2010 industry energy 13 % utilities 11 financial institutions(1) 10 chemicals, metals, mining and other materials 8 technology 7 media-related entities 6 telecommunications services 6 food, beverage and tobacco 5 pharmaceutical and healthcare 5 insurance 4 capital goods 4 real estate 3 other 18 total 100 % otc derivative products at december 31, 2010 industry financial institutions(1) 31 % banks 13 sovereign governments 11 insurance 9 utilities 8 regional governments 6 energy 5 chemicals, metals, mining and other materials 3 pharmaceutical and healthcare 3 other 11 total 100 % (1) percentage reflects credit exposures from special purpose entity vehicles, other diversified financial service entities and mutual and pension funds, exchanges and clearing houses, and private equity and real estate funds. global wealth management group activities. the principal global wealth management group activities that result in credit risk to the company include margin lending, non-purpose securities-based lending, commercial lending, and residential mortgage lending. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. margin loans are extended on a demand basis and are not committed facilities. factors 115 table of contents considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk. additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. the company, through agreements with citi relating to the formation of mssb, retains certain credit risk for margin and non-purpose loans that are held at citigroup global markets inc. in its capacity as clearing broker for certain mssb clients. the related loans are generally subject to the same oversight as similar margin and non-purpose loans held by the company and its subsidiaries. non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. similar to margin lending, non-purpose securities-based loans are structured as demand facilities. this lending activity has primarily been conducted through the portfolio loan account ( pla ) product platform. the company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification, or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies. underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. a new non-purpose lending platform, tailored lending ( tl ), was launched in february 2010 and predominantly provides securities-based lending to high net worth clients of mssb. the tl platform looks beyond the collateral security in its underwriting process to also incorporate a comprehensive analysis of the obligor financial profile and overall creditworthiness. consequently, tl advance rates are generally higher than those offered in the pla product and tl facilities may be offered on a committed basis. the global wealth management group business segment also provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-sized domestic businesses, with a suite of products that includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. decisions to extend credit are based on an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including heloc loans, a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g. , fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. historically, all mortgages were originated to be sold or securitized. eligible conforming loans are currently sold to the government-sponsored enterprises, while most non-conforming and heloc loans will be held for investment in the company portfolio. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the company financing receivables. 116 table of contents operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). the company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. the company has established an operational risk management process to identify, measure, monitor and control risk across the company. effective operational risk management is essential to reducing the impact of operational risk incidents and mitigating legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the framework is continually evolving to account for changes in the company and in response to the changing regulatory and business environment landscape. the company has implemented operational risk data and assessment systems to monitor and analyze internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors and perform scenario analysis. the collected data elements are incorporated in the operational risk capital model. the model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements. internal loss data and scenario analysis results are direct inputs to the capital models while external operational incidents, business environment internal control factors and metrics are indirect inputs to the model. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. the business managers generally maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. the operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports to senior management within each business. each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a forum for discussing operational risk matters with senior management. oversight of operational risk is provided by regional risk committees and senior management. in the event of a merger, joint venture, divestiture, reorganization, or creation of a new legal entity, a new product or a business activity, operational risks are considered, and any necessary changes in processes or controls are implemented. the independent operational risk department ( ord ) works with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive program for managing operational risk within each area and across the company globally. ord is responsible for facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the company-wide operational risk program. business continuity management is responsible for identifying key risks and threats to the company resiliency and planning to ensure a recovery strategy and required resources are in place for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing. the company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. information security policies are designed to protect the company information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. these policies cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable devices. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access. the company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of 117 table of contents means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. the supplier risk management program is responsible for the policies, procedures, organizations, governance and supporting technology to ensure adequate risk management controls between the company and its third-party suppliers as it relates to information security disaster recoverability, and other key areas. the program ensures company compliance with regulatory requirements. legal and regulatory risk. legal risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 and risk factors in part i, item 1a). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the legal and compliance division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 118 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the sovereign debt crisis in europe, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as if we were to incur large trading losses, are downgraded by the rating agencies, suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. global markets and economic conditions have been negatively impacted by the ability of certain e.u. member states to service their sovereign debt obligations. the continued uncertainty over the outcome of the e.u. governments financial support programs and the possibility that other e.u. member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. in particular, it has and could in the future disrupt equity markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of e.u. members. these factors, or market perceptions concerning such matters, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. in particular, in connection with certain of our institutional securities business segment activities, we have exposure to european peripheral countries, which are defined as exposures in greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain. at january 3, 2012, exposure before hedges to european peripheral countries was approximately $5,044 million and net exposure after hedges was approximately $3,056 million. exposure includes obligations from sovereign governments, corporations, and financial institutions. in addition, at december 31, 2011, we had european peripheral country exposure for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $448 million. see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk credit risk country risk exposure select european countries. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, business mix and actual and perceived levels of government support. our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit 20 table of contents derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. our long-term credit ratings by moody investor services, inc ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ratings services ( s&amp;p ) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as split ratings ). at december 31, 2011, the amounts of additional collateral or termination payments that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such agreements in the event of a downgrade of our long-term credit rating under various scenarios were as follows: $919 million (a3 moody s/a- s&amp;p); $3,989 million (baa1 moody s/ bbb+ s&amp;p); and $4,743 million (baa2 moody s/bbb s&amp;p). in addition, we are required to pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. at december 31, 2011, the increased collateral requirement at certain exchanges and clearing organizations under various scenarios was $118 million (a3 moody s/a- s&amp;p); $1,183 million (baa1 moody s/ bbb+ s&amp;p); and $1,775 million (baa2 moody s/bbb s&amp;p). the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in part ii, item 7 herein. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding company subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economy. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in recent years and continue to be, including as a result of the sovereign debt crisis in the e.u. in particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. continued turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. market risk. market risk refers to our exposure to adverse changes in the values of our portfolios and financial instruments due to changes in market prices or rates. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 21 table of contents our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the company acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including mssb and with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc. ( mufg )); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; and technological changes or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business segment. we may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in recent years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. 22 table of contents holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. at december 31, 2011, the consolidated statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $2.0 billion, including noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.6 billion. in addition, we had contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.8 billion at december 31, 2011. we also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. between 2004 and december 31, 2011, we sponsored approximately $148 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities ( rmbs ) primarily containing u.s. residential loans. of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21 billion of loans. at december 31, 2011, the current unpaid principal balance ( upb ) for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $23.5 billion and the cumulative losses associated with u.s. rmbs were approximately $10.5 billion. we did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $80 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. we have not sponsored any u.s. rmbs transactions since 2007. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ). between 2004 and 2010, we originated approximately $44 billion and $27 billion of u.s. and non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into cmbs sponsored by us. at december 31, 2011, the current upb for all u.s. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $35.2 billion. at december 31, 2011, the current upb when known for all non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $13.9 billion and the upb at the time of sale when the current upb is not known was $0.4 billion. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis-related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future. we continue to monitor our real estate-related activities in order to manage our exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. see legal proceedings residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters in part i, item 3 herein. 23 table of contents credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. we incur credit risk in traded securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from other internal or external events ( e.g. , internal or external fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, security breaches, etc.). we may incur operational risk across our full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading), support functions ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing) or other strategic decisions ( e.g. , the integration of mssb or other joint ventures, acquisitions or strategic alliances). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly 24 table of contents complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other events that could have a security impact on such systems. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, electrical, environmental, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal and regulatory risk. legal and compliance risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements or litigation. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see risk management legal risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we operate, and face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides a bounty to whistleblowers who present the sec with information related to securities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this bounty, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec. 25 table of contents in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, or are currently considering enacting, financial market reforms that have resulted and could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, we are subject to significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime which will impose especially high capital and liquidity requirements, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. certain portions of the dodd-frank act were effective immediately, while other portions will be effective only following rulemaking and extended transition periods, but many of these changes could in the future materially impact the profitability of our businesses, the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. while there continues to be uncertainty about the exact impact of these changes, we do know that the company will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. for example, the volcker rule provision of the dodd-frank act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. regulators have proposed regulations to implement the substantive volcker rule provisions and comments were due by february 13, 2012. it is unclear whether final rules will be in place by july 21, 2012 when the volcker rule is to become effective. even with the publication of proposed rules, however, it is still too early to determine any additional limitations on the company beyond the restriction on standalone proprietary trading. there remains considerable uncertainty about the interpretation of the proposed rules, and we are also unable to predict what the final version of the rules will be or the impact they may have on our businesses. we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the volcker rule, and when the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the volcker rule. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for example, recently, the level of litigation activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from residential mortgage claims that have not yet been notified to us or are not yet determined to be material. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the federal reserve and international central banking authorities 26 table of contents directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and europe; we own transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. we are engaged in discussions with the federal reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act by the end of any extensions of the bhc act grace period. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for example, the u.s. and the e.u. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. 27 table of contents a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. in addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our domestic subsidiary banks and their affiliates. risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. for example, market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes 28 table of contents could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. 29 table of contents as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide and the fcpa. a violation of a sanction or embargo program or of the fcpa or similar laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, such as the u.k. bribery act, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, joint ventures (including mssb) or strategic alliances (including with mufg), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. for example, the ownership arrangements relating to the company joint venture in japan with mufg of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. mufg and the company have integrated their respective japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, mumss and msms. during the first quarter of 2011, the company recorded a loss of $655 million arising from its 40% stake in mumss related to certain fixed income trading positions at mumss, which is a subsidiary of mufg that is controlled and risk managed by mufg. while mufg contributed $370 million in capital to mumss in connection with the trading losses, additional losses could be incurred by mumss in the future. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters japanese securities joint venture in part ii, item 7 herein. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 100 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. risk management. overview. management believes effective risk management is vital to the success of the company business activities. accordingly, the company employs an enterprise risk management ( erm ) framework to integrate the diverse roles of the risk departments into a holistic enterprise structure and to facilitate the incorporation of risk evaluation into decision-making processes across the company. the company has policies and procedures in place to identify, assess, monitor and manage the significant risks involved in the activities of its institutional securities, global wealth management group and asset management business segments as well as at the holding company level. principal risks involved in the company business activities include market, credit, capital and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risk. the cornerstone of the company risk management philosophy is the execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the company capital base and franchise. five key principles underlie this philosophy: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. the fast-paced, complex, and constantly-evolving nature of global financial markets requires that the company maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to ongoing review and enhancement. to help ensure the efficacy of risk management, which is an essential component of the company reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and the appropriate escalation of risk matters. risk governance structure. risk management at the company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the company business segments, and effective communication of risk matters to senior management and across the company. the nature of the company risks, coupled with its risk management philosophy, informs the company risk governance structure. the company risk governance structure is comprised of the board of directors; the risk committee of the board ( brc ), the audit committee of the board ( bac ), and the operations and technology committee of the board ( botc ); the firm risk committee ( frc ); senior management oversight (including the chief executive officer, chief risk officer, chief financial officer, chief legal officer and chief compliance officer); the internal audit department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the company business segments. a risk governance structure composed of independent but complementary entities facilitates efficient and comprehensive supervision of the company risk exposures and processes. morgan stanley board of directors. the board has oversight for the company erm framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that the company risks are managed in a sound manner. the board has authorized the committees within the erm framework to help facilitate its risk oversight responsibilities. risk committee of the board. the brc, appointed by the board, is composed of non-management directors. the brc is responsible for assisting the board in the oversight of the company risk governance structure; the company risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding market, credit, and liquidity and funding risk; the company risk tolerance; and the performance of the chief risk officer. the brc reports to the full board on a regular basis. audit committee of the board. the bac, appointed by the board, is composed of independent directors (pursuant to the company corporate governance policies and applicable new york stock exchange and securities and exchange commission ( sec ) rules) and is responsible for oversight of the integrity of the company consolidated financial statements, the company compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the company system of internal controls, the qualifications and independence of the company 100 table of contents independent auditor, and the performance of the company internal and independent auditors. in addition, the bac assists the board in its oversight of certain aspects of risk management, including review of the major franchise, reputational, legal and compliance risk exposures of the company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures, as well as guidelines and policies that govern the process for risk assessment and risk management. the bac reports to the full board on a regular basis. operations and technology committee of the board. the botc, established in 2011 and appointed by the board, is responsible for assisting the board in its oversight of the company operations and technology strategy and significant investments in support of such strategy and operational risks, reviewing the major operational risk exposures of the company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. the botc is also responsible for the review and approval of operations and technology policies, as well as the review of the company risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding operational risk. the botc reports to the full board on a regular basis. firm risk committee. the board has also authorized the frc, a management committee appointed and chaired by the chief executive officer, which includes the most senior officers of the company, including the chief risk officer, chief legal officer and chief financial officer, to oversee morgan stanley risk management structure. the frc responsibilities include oversight of the company risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal, compliance, operational, franchise and regulatory risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. the frc reports to the full board, the bac, the botc and the brc through the company chief risk officer and chief financial officer. chief risk officer. the chief risk officer, who reports to the chief executive officer and the brc, oversees compliance with company risk limits; approves exceptions to the company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the board, the brc, the bac, and the botc, as appropriate. the chief risk officer also coordinates with the compensation, management development and succession committee of the board to evaluate whether the company compensation arrangements encourage unnecessary or excessive risk-taking, and whether risks arising from the company compensation arrangements are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the company. internal audit department. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the bac and administratively to the chief legal officer. the internal audit department examines the company operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories. independent risk management functions. the independent risk management functions (market risk, credit risk management, operational risk and corporate treasury departments) are independent of the company business units. these groups assist senior management and the frc in monitoring and controlling the company risk through a number of control processes. each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. further discussion about the responsibilities of the risk management functions may be found below under market risk, credit risk, and operational risk and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. control groups. the company control groups include the human resources department, the legal and compliance division, the operations division, global technology and data, the tax department and finance. the company control groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business segment market, credit and operational risk profile; sales practices; reputation; legal enforceability; and operational and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the company and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review. 101 table of contents divisional risk committees. each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the frc; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. stress value-at-risk. the company frequently enhances its market and credit risk management framework to address severe stresses that are observed in global markets during economic downturns. during 2011, the company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario analysis, and further refined its market and credit risk limit framework. stress value-at-risk ( s-var ), a proprietary methodology that comprehensively measures the company market and credit risks, was further refined and continues to be an important metric used in establishing the company risk appetite and its capital allocation framework. s-var simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data and attempts to capture the different liquidities of various types of general and specific risks. additionally, s-var captures event and default risks that are particularly relevant for credit portfolios. risk management process. the following is a discussion of the company risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (capital and liquidity risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein). the discussion focuses on the company securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. the company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of the company risk exposure generated by the company statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the company operates and certain other factors described below. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, the company incurs market risk as a result of trading, investing and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business segment where the substantial majority of the company value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, the company incurs trading-related market risk within the global wealth management group. asset management incurs principally non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles. sound market risk management is an integral part of the company culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors the company risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the company var and scenario analysis systems. these limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. market risk is also monitored through various measures: statistically (using var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, and scenario 102 table of contents analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the frc, the brc, and the board of directors. sales and trading and related activities. primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during 2011, the company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities. the company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and other trading in interest rate-sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities). the company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities. the company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-u.s. dollar-denominated financial instruments. the company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. these changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. the company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. the company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the company aggregate risk tolerance as established by the company senior management. aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the company across all divisions worldwide. additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management. var. the company uses the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. 103 table of contents var methodology, assumptions and limitations. the company estimates var using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans and related derivatives. historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. the company var model uses four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. the company 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. the company var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to equity and commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates. the model also takes into account linear exposures to implied volatility risks for all asset classes and non-linear exposures to implied volatility risks for equity, commodity and foreign exchange referenced products. the var model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives as well as certain basis risks (e.g., corporate debt and related credit derivatives). among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks and portfolio assets. one key element of the var model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities. however, var risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology limitations, which include but are not limited to: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a var model; var using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for var estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the var; and published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. a small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions is not included in var. the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies on approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different results from those produced using more precise measures. var is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. the company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses var as only one component in its risk management oversight process. as explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and company levels. the company var model evolves over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. the company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of var methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. as part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. additionally, the company continues to evaluate enhancements to the var model to make it more responsive to more recent market conditions while maintaining a longer-term perspective. since the reported var statistics are estimates based on historical data, var should not be viewed as predictive of the company future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that the company actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days for a 95%/one-day var. var does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the var amount. 104 table of contents var for 2011. the table below presents var for the company trading portfolio, on a year-end, annual average and annual high and low basis (see table 1 below). the var that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as a higher confidence level for the var statistic (99% rather than 95%) or a shorter historical time series of market data (one year rather than four years), are also disclosed (see table 2 below). the credit portfolio var is disclosed as a separate category from the primary risk categories. the credit portfolio var includes the mark-to-market relationship lending exposures and associated hedges as well as counterparty credit valuation adjustments and related hedges. a key driver of the credit portfolio var in 2011 was the company exposure to monolines, principally mbia. for further information on the company settlement with mbia, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary significant items monoline insurers in part ii, item 7 herein. trading risks. the table below presents the company 95%/one-day trading var: table 1: 95% var 95%/one-day var for 2011 95%/one-day var for 2010 market risk category period end average high low period end average high low (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 66 $ 87 $ 137 $ 49 $ 92 $ 104 $ 127 $ 86 equity price 25 31 48 21 29 28 52 19 foreign exchange rate 18 17 27 8 20 24 50 9 commodity price 28 30 44 23 30 28 35 21 less: diversification benefit(1)(2) (67 ) (63 ) n/a n/a (51 ) (66 ) n/a n/a primary risk categories $ 70 $ 102 $ 170 $ 60 $ 120 $ 118 $ 149 $ 98 credit portfolio 52 97 124 49 74 67 79 54 less: diversification benefit(1)(2) (35 ) (70 ) n/a n/a (76 ) (46 ) n/a n/a total trading var $ 87 $ 129 $ 168 $ 83 $ 118 $ 139 $ 165 $ 117 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between the total var and the sum of the component vars. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component. (2) n/a not applicable. the minimum and maximum var values for the total var and each of the component vars might have occurred on different days during the quarter and therefore the diversification benefit is not an applicable measure. the company average var for the primary risk categories for 2011 was $102 million compared with $118 million for 2010. reduced risk taking in fixed income products was the primary driver of the decrease. the reduction in period-end var from $120 million for 2010 to $70 million for 2011 more clearly demonstrates the reduced risk taking in fixed income products that occurred at the end of the third quarter of 2011 that continued through the fourth quarter of 2011. the average credit portfolio var for 2011 was $97 million compared with $67 million for 2010. the increase in the average var over the year was from increased counterparty exposure during 2011. a more meaningful comparison for the credit portfolio is between the period-end var for 2011 of $52 million and the period-end var for 2010 of $74 million. this reduction reflects the settlement with mbia in december of 2011. the average total trading var for 2011 was $129 million compared with $139 million for 2010. this reduction was driven by the reduced risk taking in the primary risk categories. the reduction in the period-end total trading var represents both the reduced risk taking in fixed income products as well as the settlement with mbia. 105 table of contents var statistics under varying assumptions. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm var model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market risk factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the simulated market conditions. these differences can result in materially different var estimates for similar portfolios. the impact varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated, and the confidence level. as a result, var statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. table 2 presents the var statistics that would result if the company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the var statistic or a shorter historical time series (four-year versus one-year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations. the four-year var measure continues to reflect the high market volatilities experienced through 2007 and 2008, while the one-year var is no longer affected by these phenomena. table 2: 95% and 99% average trading var with four-year / one-year historical time series 95% average one-day var for 2011 99% average one-day var for 2011 market risk category four-year risk factor history one-year risk factor history four-year risk factor history one-year risk factor history (dollars in millions) interest rate and credit spread $ 87 $ 57 $ 163 $ 110 equity price 31 25 45 37 foreign exchange rate 17 15 28 26 commodity price 30 23 54 38 less: diversification benefit(1) (63 ) (46 ) (111 ) (81 ) primary risk categories $ 102 $ 74 $ 179 $ 130 credit portfolio 97 58 194 127 less: diversification benefit(1) (70 ) (41 ) (124 ) (80 ) total trading var $ 129 $ 91 $ 249 $ 177 (1) diversification benefit equals the difference between the total var and the sum of the component vars. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component. distribution of var statistics and net revenues for 2011. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of the company var model as a measure of the company potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the var with actual trading revenue. assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the adequacy of the var model could be questioned. differences between recent market volatility and the historical market volatility used in the var model may result in the number of days in which trading losses exceed var to be higher or lower than statistically expected. the company evaluates the reasonableness of its var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results for both the company as well as individual business units. for days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% var statistic, the company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the var model accuracy relative to realized trading results. in line with the enhanced transparency of the company traded market risk displayed in tables 1 and 2, the distribution of var statistics and net revenues will be presented for both the primary risk categories and the total trading populations. 106 table of contents primary risk categories. as shown in table 1, the company average 95%/one-day primary risk categories var for 2011 was $102 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day primary risk categories var for 2011. the most frequently occurring value was between $115 million and $130 million, while for approximately 41% of the trading days during the year, the primary risk categories var was less than $100 million, reflecting the reduction in risk at the end of the third quarter of 2011 that continued through the fourth quarter of 2011. 107 table of contents the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue for the company businesses that comprise the primary risk categories for 2011. this excludes the non-trading revenue of these businesses and the revenue associated with the company own credit risk. during 2011, the company businesses that comprise the primary risk categories experienced net trading losses on 49 days, 1 day of which was in excess of the 95%/one-day primary risk categories var. 108 table of contents total trading including the primary risk categories and the credit portfolio. as shown in table 1, the company average 95%/one-day total trading var, which includes the primary risk categories and the credit portfolio, for 2011 was $129 million. the histogram below presents the distribution of the company daily 95%/one-day total trading var for 2011. the most frequently occurring value was between $130 million and $145 million, while for approximately 70% of the trading days during 2011, the total trading var ranged between $115 million and $145 million. 109 table of contents the histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue for the company trading businesses for 2011. this excludes the non-trading revenue of these businesses and the revenue associated with the company own credit risk. during 2011, the company experienced net trading losses on 64 days, 4 days of which were in excess of the 95%/one-day trading var. non-trading risks. the company believes that sensitivity analysis is an appropriate representation of the company non-trading risks. reflected below is this analysis, which covers substantially all of the non-trading risk in the company portfolio. counterparty exposure related to the company own spread. the credit spread risk relating to the company own mark-to-market derivative counterparty exposure corresponds to an increase in value of approximately $6 million and $8 million for each 1 basis point widening in the company credit spread level for december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, respectively. funding liabilities. the credit spread risk sensitivity of the company mark-to-market funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $12 million and $14 million for each 1 basis point widening in the company credit spread level at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, respectively. 110 table of contents interest rate risk sensitivity on income from continuing operations. the company measures the interest rate risk of certain assets and liabilities by calculating the hypothetical sensitivity of net interest income to potential changes in the level of interest rates over the next twelve months. this sensitivity analysis includes positions that are mark-to-market as well as positions that are accounted for on an accrual basis. for interest rate derivatives that are perfect economic hedges to non-mark-to-market assets or liabilities, the disclosed sensitivities include only the impact of the coupon accrual mismatch. this treatment mitigates the effects caused by the measurement basis differences between the economic hedge and the corresponding hedged instrument. given the currently low interest rate environment, the company uses the following two interest rate scenarios to quantify the company sensitivity: instantaneous parallel shocks of 100 and 200 basis point increases to all points on all yield curves simultaneously. the hypothetical model does not assume any growth, change in business focus, asset pricing philosophy or asset/liability funding mix and does not capture how the company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. furthermore, the model does not reflect the company expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term, nor the actual effect on income from continuing operations before income taxes if such changes were to occur. on december 31, 2011, the company modified its methodology so that the incremental impact of coupon accrual (net of funding expense) is derived explicitly from the projected cash flows over the next twelve months. this change provides improved accuracy over the previous method of using instantaneous shocks on mark-to-market positions to estimate the net effect of accrual and funding. the impact of this change on the december 31, 2011, consolidated results is a reduction of $32 million in interest income sensitivity for a +100 basis point scenario, and a reduction of $64 million for a +200 basis point scenario. december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 +100 basis points +200 basis points +100 basis points +200 basis points (dollars in millions) impact on income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 600 $ 1,080 $ 560 $ 1,084 impact on income from continuing operations before income taxes excluding citi share of mssb(1) 370 672 343 664 (1) reflects the exclusion of the portion of income from continuing operations before taxes associated with mssb noncontrolling interest in the joint venture. principal investments. the company makes investments in both public and private companies. these investments are predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, the majority of which are for business facilitation purposes. the market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in investment values. 10% sensitivity investments december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 (dollars in millions) investments related to asset management activities: hedge fund investments $ 141 $ 169 private equity and infrastructure funds 108 115 real estate funds 133 108 other investments: mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities co., ltd. 144 179 other company investments 297 344 111 table of contents credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations. the company incurs credit risk exposure to institutions and sophisticated investors through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including, but not limited to, entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to the company; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. the company incurs credit risk in traded securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. the company incurs credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin loans collateralized by securities, non-purpose loans predominantly collateralized by securities, and through single-family residential prime mortgage loans in conforming, nonconforming or home equity lines of credit ( heloc ) form. the company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of its businesses generates unique credit risks, and the credit risk management department establishes company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure both within and across business segments. the company employs a comprehensive and global credit limits framework as one of the primary tools used to evaluate and manage credit risk levels across the company. the credit limits framework is calibrated within the company risk tolerance and includes single name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and product type. the credit risk management department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. credit risk exposure is managed by credit professionals and committees within the credit risk management department and through various risk committees, whose membership includes the credit risk management department. the credit risk management department also works closely with the market risk department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures, including margin loans, mortgage loans, and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions. see notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the company financing receivables and lending commitments, respectively. analyzing credit risk. credit risk management takes place at the transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. in order to protect the company from losses resulting from these activities, the credit risk management department ensures lending transactions and derivative exposures are analyzed, that the creditworthiness of the company counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. the credit risk management department assigns obligor credit ratings to the company counterparties and borrowers, which reflect an assessment of an obligor probability of default. additionally, the credit risk management department evaluates the relative position of the company particular obligation in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. risk mitigation. the company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and trading activities in multiple ways. at the transaction level, the company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, financial covenants, seniority and collateral. the company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. additionally, the company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. in connection with its derivatives trading activities, the company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements provide the company with the ability to offset a counterparty rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default. 112 table of contents institutional securities activities. corporate lending. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business segment activities, the company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected corporate clients. such loans and lending commitments can generally be classified as either relationship-driven or event-driven . these loans and lending commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the company. relationship-driven loans and lending commitments refer to loans and lending commitments used for general corporate purposes, working capital and liquidity purposes. commitments associated with relationship-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. the company may hedge its exposures in connection with relationship-driven transactions, and commitments may be subject to conditions including financial covenants. the company relationship-driven loans and lending commitments typically consist of revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities and certain term loans. these loans are carried either at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings or amortized cost in the consolidated statements of financial condition. event-driven loans and lending commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization activities. commitments associated with these event-driven activities may not be indicative of the company actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. in addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the company portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication or sales process. the event-driven loans are typically syndicated or sold to third party institutional investors. the company may have a custodial relationship with these institutional investors, such as, prime brokerage clients. the borrower ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. the company risk manages its exposures in connection with event-driven transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging. the company event-driven loans and lending commitments typically consist of term loans and bridge loans. these loans are carried either at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings or amortized cost in the consolidated statements of financial condition. during 2011, the company, in accordance with its risk management practices, accounted for certain new relationship-driven and event-driven loans and lending commitments as held for investment. the company may account for additional new loans and lending commitments as held for investment or held for sale in the future. 113 table of contents the tables below present the company credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and lending commitments at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010. the total corporate lending exposure column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 for both relationship-driven and event-driven lending transactions. since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements. corporate lending commitments and funded loans at december 31, 2011 years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate lending exposure at carrying value corporate lending commitments(3) credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 779 $ 385 $ 90 $ $ 1,254 $ $ 1,254 aa 3,878 1,660 4,433 65 10,036 905 9,131 a 5,234 5,378 8,463 215 19,290 2,720 16,570 bbb 4,532 6,538 17,539 226 28,835 4,146 24,689 investment grade 14,423 13,961 30,525 506 59,415 7,771 51,644 non-investment grade 2,451 5,276 13,272 2,460 23,459 7,808 15,651 total $ 16,874 $ 19,237 $ 43,797 $ 2,966 $ 82,874 $ 15,579 $ 67,295 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by the credit risk management department. (2) total corporate lending exposure represents the company potential loss assuming the market price of funded loans and lending commitments was zero. (3) amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the company consolidated statements of financial condition. for syndications led by the company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. for syndications that the company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank. corporate lending commitments and funded loans at december 31, 2010 years to maturity total corporate lending exposure(2) corporate lending exposure at carrying value corporate lending commitments(3) credit rating(1) less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 (dollars in millions) aaa $ 351 $ 342 $ 50 $ $ 743 $ $ 743 aa 3,220 5,435 671 70 9,396 131 9,265 a 2,889 9,030 3,017 34 14,970 1,292 13,678 bbb 2,793 16,170 4,816 237 24,016 3,203 20,813 investment grade 9,253 30,977 8,554 341 49,125 4,626 44,499 non-investment grade 1,740 6,857 7,642 4,539 20,778 6,845 13,933 total $ 10,993 $ 37,834 $ 16,196 $ 4,880 $ 69,903 $ 11,471 $ 58,432 (1) obligor credit ratings are determined by the credit risk management department. (2) total corporate lending exposure represents the company potential loss assuming the market price of funded loans and lending commitments was zero. (3) amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the company consolidated statements of financial condition. for syndications led by the company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. for syndications that the company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank. 114 table of contents at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $7.8 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $7.8 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively. in connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the company had hedges (which include single name, sector and index hedges) with a notional amount of $35.8 billion and $21.0 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $82.9 billion and $69.9 billion at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, respectively. at december 31, 2011, the company corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $15.2 billion of funded loans and $1.3 billion of lending commitments recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition. the company corporate lending exposure accounted for as held for investment includes $1.7 billion of funded loans recorded in loans, with an allowance for loan losses of $6 million, and $8 billion of unfunded commitments with an allowance for credit losses of $17 million recorded in other liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2010, the company corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $11.2 billion of funded loans and $0.5 billion of lending commitments recorded in financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition. the company corporate lending exposure accounted for as held for investment includes $750 million of funded loans recorded in loans with an allowance for loan losses of $0.4 million in the consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2010. see notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for information on corporate loans and corporate lending commitments, respectively. event-driven loans and lending commitments at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above at december 31, 2011 were event-driven exposure of $7.2 billion composed of funded loans of $3.0 billion and lending commitments of $4.2 billion. included in the event-driven exposure at december 31, 2011 were $3.8 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers. the maturity profile of the event-driven loans and lending commitments at december 31, 2011 was as follows: 55% will mature in less than 1 year, 9% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 13% will mature within 3 to 5 years, and 23% will mature in over 5 years. included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above at december 31, 2010 were event-driven exposure of $5.4 billion composed of funded loans of $1.3 billion and lending commitments of $4.1 billion. included in the $5.4 billion of event-driven exposure at december 31, 2010 were $4.9 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed. the maturity profile of the event-driven loans and lending commitments at december 31, 2010 was as follows: 11% will mature in less than 1 year, 21% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 26% will mature within 3 to 5 years, and 43% will mature in over 5 years. at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, $301 million and $646 million of the company event-driven loans were on a non-accrual basis, respectively. these loans primarily are those the company originated prior to the financial crisis in 2008 and was unable to sell or syndicate. for loans carried at fair value that are on non-accrual status, interest income is recognized on a cash basis. activity associated with the corporate event-driven lending exposure during 2011 was as follows (dollars in millions): event-driven lending exposures at december 31, 2010 $ 5,409 closed commitments 7,188 net reductions, primarily through syndication or sales (5,368 ) mark-to-market adjustments (72 ) event-driven lending exposures at december 31, 2011 $ 7,157 115 table of contents other institutional securities lending activities. in addition to the primary corporate lending activity described above, the institutional securities business segment engages in other lending activity. at december 31, 2011, $9.2 billion of funded loans carried at fair value were recorded in financial instruments owned in the consolidated statements of financial condition. these loans include corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, commercial and residential mortgage loans, and financing extended to equities and commodities customers. at december 31, 2011, $2.2 billion of funded loans accounted for as held for investment are recorded in loans with an allowance for loan losses of $8 million in the consolidated statements of financial condition. these loans are primarily commercial asset-backed lending. derivative contracts. in the normal course of business, the company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. the company uses these instruments for trading and hedging purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. these instruments generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in otc derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. the company exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets, net of cash collateral received. the fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants and is further described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition. in addition to measuring and managing credit exposures referenced to the current fair value of derivative instruments, the company also measures and manages credit exposures referenced to potential exposure. potential exposure is an estimate of exposure, within a specified confidence level, that could be outstanding over time based on market movements. for credit exposure information on the company credit derivative and other otc derivative products, see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. credit derivatives. a credit derivative is a contract between a seller (guarantor) and buyer (beneficiary) of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity. the beneficiary pays a periodic premium (typically quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. if a credit event occurs, the guarantor is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation and payment moratorium. debt restructurings are also considered a credit event in some cases. in certain transactions referenced to a portfolio of referenced entities or asset-backed securities, deductibles and caps may limit the guarantor obligations. the company trades in a variety of credit derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities. the company is an active market maker in the credit derivatives markets. as a market maker, the company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manage any residual credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. further, the company uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures during the periods presented. the company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. a majority of the company counterparties are banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions. contracts with these counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events but do include provisions related to 116 table of contents counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in additional collateral being required by the company. as with all derivative contracts, the company considers counterparty credit risk in the valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation adjustments as appropriate within principal transactions trading. the company exposure to monolines was significantly reduced following a comprehensive settlement with mbia on december 13, 2011. for further information on the company settlement with mbia, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary significant items monoline insurers in part ii, item 7 herein. the following table summarizes the key characteristics of the company credit derivative portfolio by counterparty at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010. the fair values shown are before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting. at december 31, 2011 fair values(1) notionals receivable payable net beneficiary guarantor (dollars in millions) banks and securities firms $ 123,821 $ 117,125 $ 6,696 $ 2,099,438 $ 2,039,555 insurance and other financial institutions 13,467 13,334 133 326,633 386,720 monolines(2) 298 5 293 18,647 non-financial entities 1,205 262 943 17,543 6,129 total $ 138,791 $ 130,726 $ 8,065 $ 2,462,261 $ 2,432,404 (1) the company credit default swaps are classified in both level 2 and level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. approximately 11% of receivable fair values and 7% of payable fair values represent level 3 amounts. (2) credit derivatives used to hedge the company credit exposure to monolines (including derivative counterparty exposure) are included in the table based on the counterparties writing such hedges. none of these hedges are written by other monolines. at december 31, 2010 fair values(1) notionals(2) receivable payable net beneficiary guarantor (dollars in millions) banks and securities firms $ 96,551 $ 86,574 $ 9,977 $ 2,037,326 $ 2,032,824 insurance and other financial institutions 10,954 8,679 2,275 277,714 257,180 monolines 2,370 2,370 25,676 non-financial entities 259 373 (114 ) 2,920 4,247 total $ 110,134 $ 95,626 $ 14,508 $ 2,343,636 $ 2,294,251 (1) the company credit default swaps are classified in both level 2 and level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. approximately 13% of receivable fair values and 8% of payable fair values represent level 3 amounts. (2) amounts do not include the effect of hedges of monoline derivative counterparty exposure. securitizations. the company may extend short- or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending commitments that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, commercial and industrial company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in the underlying collateral value. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for information about the company securitization activities. other. in addition to the activities noted above, there are other credit risks managed by the credit risk management department and various business areas within the institutional securities business segment. the company incurs credit risk through margin and collateral transactions with clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. certain risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the company prime brokerage and securitized product 117 table of contents businesses are primarily monitored within those respective areas in that they determine the appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. in addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the company collateralized transactions. country risk exposure. country risk exposure is the risk that events within a country, such as currency crises, regulatory changes and other political events, will adversely affect the ability of the sovereign government and/or obligors within the country to honor their obligations to the company. country risk exposure is measured in accordance with the company internal risk management standards and includes obligations from sovereign governments, corporations, clearinghouses and financial institutions. the company actively manages country risk exposure through a comprehensive risk management framework that combines credit and market fundamentals as well as scenario analysis, and allows the company to effectively identify, monitor and limit country risk. country risk exposure before and after hedges are monitored and managed, with stress testing and scenario analysis conducted on a continuous basis, to identify exposure concentrations, wrong way risk and the impact of idiosyncratic events. in addition, indirect exposures are captured and monitored through regular stress testing and counterparty, market and systemic vulnerability analysis. the company reduces its country risk exposure through the effect of risk mitigants, such as netting agreements with counterparties that permit the company to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties, obtaining collateral from counterparties, and by hedging. in addition to the company country risk exposure, the company discloses its cross-border outstanding information in financial statements and supplementary data financial data supplement (unaudited) in part ii, item 8 herein. it is based on the federal financial institutions examination council ( ffiec ) regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border information and represents the amounts that the company may not be able to obtain from a foreign country due to country-specific events, including unfavorable economic and political conditions, economic and social instability, and changes in government policies. there can be substantial differences between the company country risk exposure and cross-border risk exposure. for instance, unlike the cross-border risk exposure, the company country risk exposure includes the effect of certain risk mitigants such as obtaining collateral from counterparties. in addition, the basis for determining the domicile of the country risk exposure is different from the basis for determining the cross-border risk exposure. cross-border risk exposure is reported based on the country of jurisdiction for the obligor or guarantor. besides country of jurisdiction, the company also considers factors such as physical location of operations or assets, location and source of cash flows/revenues, and location of collateral (if applicable) in order to determine the basis for country risk exposure. furthermore, cross-border risk exposure only incorporates cds where protection is purchased while country risk exposure incorporates cds where protection is both purchased and sold. 118 table of contents the company sovereign exposures consist of financial instruments entered into with sovereign and local governments. its non-sovereign exposures comprise exposures to corporations and financial institutions. the following table shows the company significant non-u.s. country risk exposure, except for select european countries (see country risk exposure select european countries herein), at december 31, 2011. country net inventory(1) net counterparty exposure(2) funded lending unfunded commitments exposure before hedges hedges(3) net exposure(4) (dollars in millions) united kingdom: sovereigns $ 425 $ 46 $ $ $ 471 $ (194 ) $ 277 non-sovereigns 746 12,617 3,106 4,112 20,581 (3,414 ) 17,167 total united kingdom $ 1,171 $ 12,663 $ 3,106 $ 4,112 $ 21,052 $ (3,608 ) $ 17,444 brazil: sovereigns $ 3,901 $ $ $ $ 3,901 $ $ 3,901 non-sovereigns 154 2,173 198 375 2,900 (87 ) 2,813 total brazil $ 4,055 $ 2,173 $ 198 $ 375 $ 6,801 $ (87 ) $ 6,714 germany: sovereigns $ (459 ) $ 973 $ $ $ 514 $ (1,350 ) $ (836 ) non-sovereigns 712 2,343 573 3,912 7,540 (2,948 ) 4,592 total germany $ 253 $ 3,316 $ 573 $ 3,912 $ 8,054 $ (4,298 ) $ 3,756 australia: sovereigns $ (253 ) $ $ $ $ (253 ) $ (20 ) $ (273 ) non-sovereigns 873 886 380 1,019 3,158 (398 ) 2,760 total australia $ 620 $ 886 $ 380 $ 1,019 $ 2,905 $ (418 ) $ 2,487 canada: sovereigns $ (555 ) $ 243 $ $ $ (312 ) $ $ (312 ) non-sovereigns 609 897 441 1,378 3,325 (890 ) 2,435 total canada $ 54 $ 1,140 $ 441 $ 1,378 $ 3,013 $ (890 ) $ 2,123 (1) net inventory representing exposure to both long and short single name positions (i.e., bonds and equities at fair value and cds based on notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). (2) net counterparty exposure (i.e., repurchase transactions, securities lending and otc derivatives) taking into consideration legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. (3) represents cds hedges on net counterparty exposure and funded lending. based on the cds notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable. (4) in addition, at december 31, 2011, the company had exposure to these countries for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $4.1 billion. 119 table of contents country risk exposure select european countries. in connection with certain of its institutional securities business segment activities, the company has country risk exposure to many foreign countries. during 2011, certain european countries, which include greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain (the european peripherals ) and france, experienced varying degrees of credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. the following table shows the company country risk exposure to european peripherals and france at december 31, 2011. such country risk exposure is measured in accordance with the company internal risk management standards and includes obligations from sovereign and non-sovereigns, which includes governments, corporations, clearinghouses and financial institutions. country net inventory(1) net counterparty exposure(2) funded lending unfunded commitments cds adjustment(3) exposure before hedges hedges(4) net exposure (dollars in millions) greece: sovereigns $ (8 ) $ 20 $ $ $ 23 $ 35 $ 1 $ 36 non-sovereigns 53 7 142 202 (78 ) 124 total greece $ 45 $ 27 $ 142 $ $ 23 $ 237 $ (77 ) $ 160 ireland: sovereigns $ 78 $ 1 $ $ $ 4 $ 83 $ (2 ) $ 81 non-sovereigns 102 41 15 158 (16 ) 142 total ireland $ 180 $ 42 $ $ $ 19 $ 241 $ (18 ) $ 223 italy(6): sovereigns $ (29 ) $ 4,202 $ $ $ 412 $ 4,585 $ (786 ) $ 3,799 non-sovereigns 197 689 255 363 179 1,683 (581 ) 1,102 total italy(6) $ 168 $ 4,891 $ 255 $ 363 $ 591 $ 6,268 $ (1,367 ) $ 4,901 spain: sovereigns $ (366 ) $ 11 $ $ $ 504 $ 149 $ (37 ) $ 112 non-sovereigns 225 397 311 424 218 1,575 (297 ) 1,278 total spain $ (141 ) $ 408 $ 311 $ 424 $ 722 $ 1,724 $ (334 ) $ 1,390 portugal: sovereigns $ (435 ) $ 97 $ $ $ 23 $ (315 ) $ (96 ) $ (411 ) non-sovereigns 7 90 126 47 270 (98 ) 172 total portugal $ (428 ) $ 187 $ 126 $ $ 70 $ (45 ) $ (194 ) $ (239 ) sovereigns $ (760 ) $ 4,331 $ $ $ 966 $ 4,537 $ (920 ) $ 3,617 non-sovereigns 584 1,224 834 787 459 3,888 (1,070 ) 2,818 total european peripherals(5)(6) $ (176 ) $ 5,555 $ 834 $ 787 $ 1,425 $ 8,425 $ (1,990 ) $ 6,435 france(5): sovereigns $ (1,796 ) $ 234 $ $ $ 100 $ (1,462 ) $ (228 ) $ (1,690 ) non-sovereigns 85 2,246 416 1,657 390 4,794 (1,390 ) 3,404 total france(5) $ (1,711 ) $ 2,480 $ 416 $ 1,657 $ 490 $ 3,332 $ (1,618 ) $ 1,714 (1) net inventory representing exposure to both long and short single name positions (i.e., bonds and equities at fair value and cds based on notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). (2) net counterparty exposure (i.e., repurchase transactions, securities lending and otc derivatives) taking into consideration legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. (3) cds adjustment represents credit protection purchased from european peripheral banks on european peripheral sovereign and financial institution risk, or french banks on french sovereign and financial institution risk. based on the cds notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable. (4) represents cds hedges on net counterparty exposure and funded lending. based on the cds notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable. 120 table of contents (5) in addition, at december 31, 2011, the company had european peripherals and french exposure for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $448 million and $15 million, respectively. (6) on december 22, 2011, the company executed certain derivative restructuring amendments which settled on january 3, 2012. upon settlement of the amendments, the exposure before hedges and net exposure for italy decreased to $2,887 million and $1,522 million, respectively, and the exposure before hedges and net exposure for european peripherals decreased to $5,044 million and $3,056 million, respectively. industry exposure corporate lending and otc derivative products. the company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the company otc derivative contracts. the following tables show the company credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and otc derivative products by industry at december 31, 2011: industry corporate lending exposure (dollars in millions) energy $ 9,202 utilities 8,952 funds, exchanges and other financial services(1) 7,140 chemicals, metals, mining and other materials 4,855 capital goods 4,692 food, beverage and tobacco 4,557 pharmaceuticals 4,270 media-related entities 4,212 telecommunications services 4,162 other 30,832 total $ 82,874 industry otc derivative products(2) (dollars in millions) sovereign governments $ 5,625 banks 4,835 utilities 4,146 funds, exchanges and other financial services(1) 4,018 regional governments 3,031 other 13,394 total $ 35,049 (1) includes mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses and diversified financial services. (2) for further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. global wealth management group activities. the principal global wealth management group activities that result in credit risk to the company include margin lending, non-purpose lending, and residential mortgage lending. customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. the company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. margin loans are extended on a demand basis and are not committed facilities. factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification and in the 121 table of contents case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk. additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. the company, through agreements with citi relating to the formation of mssb, retains certain credit risk for margin and non-purpose loans that are held at citigroup global markets inc. in its capacity as clearing broker for certain mssb clients. the related loans are generally subject to the same oversight as similar margin and non-purpose loans held by the company and its subsidiaries. non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying margin stock or refinancing margin debt. similar to margin lending, non-purpose securities-based loans are structured as demand facilities. this lending activity has primarily been conducted through the portfolio loan account ( pla ) product platform. the company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification, and, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies. underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. an additional non-purpose lending platform, tailored lending ( tl ), provides lending to high net worth clients of mssb, predominantly collateralized by securities. in addition to review of collateral security, credit assessment for the platform also incorporates a comprehensive analysis of the obligor financial profile and overall creditworthiness. consequently, tl advance rates are generally higher than those offered in the pla platform and tl facilities may be offered on a committed basis. the global wealth management group business segment also provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-sized domestic businesses, with a suite of products that includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. decisions to extend credit are based on an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. with respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including heloc loans, a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., fico scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. historically, all mortgages were originated to be sold or securitized. eligible conforming loans are currently held for sale, while most non-conforming and heloc loans are held for investment in the company portfolio. in certain instances, the company enters into reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions to acquire securities to cover short positions, to settle other securities obligations and to accommodate customers needs. the company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. in addition, the global wealth management group business segment has employee loans that are granted primarily in conjunction with a program established by the company to retain and recruit certain employees. these loans, recorded in receivables fees, interest and other in the consolidated statements of financial condition, are full 122 table of contents recourse, require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from four to 12 years. the company establishes a reserve for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable from terminated employees, which is recorded in compensation and benefits expense. at december 31, 2011, global wealth management group had $11.4 billion of loans held for investment with an allowance for loan losses of $3 million and $114 million of loans held for sale classified in loans in the consolidated statements of financial condition. see notes 2, 6 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the company allowance for loan losses, collateralized transactions and financing receivables, respectively. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events (e.g., fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). the company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and control groups (e.g., information technology and trade processing). legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal and regulatory risk. the company has established an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and control risk across the company. effective operational risk management is essential to reducing the impact of operational risk incidents and mitigating legal, regulatory and reputational risks. the framework is continually evolving to account for changes in the company and in response to the changing regulatory and business environment. the company has implemented operational risk data and assessment systems to monitor and analyze internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors and perform scenario analysis. the collected data elements are incorporated in the operational risk capital model. the model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements. internal loss data and scenario analysis results are direct inputs to the capital model while external operational incidents, business environment internal control factors and metrics are indirect inputs to the model. primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. the business managers generally maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. the operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports to senior management within each business. each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a forum for discussing operational risk matters with senior management. oversight of operational risk is provided by regional risk committees and senior management. in the event of a merger, joint venture, divestiture, reorganization, or creation of a new legal entity, a new product or a business activity, operational risks are considered, and any necessary changes in processes or controls are implemented. enterprise operational risk and control ( eorc ) and the independent operational risk department ( ord ) work with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive program for managing operational risk within each area and across the company globally. ord is responsible for the design, ownership and independent validation of the operational risk framework, analysis of operational risk data and senior governance reporting. eorc is responsible for the execution of the operational risk framework including, but not limited to facilitating, collecting and validating operational risk data. business continuity management is responsible for identifying key risks and threats to the company resiliency and planning to ensure a recovery strategy and required resources are in place for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed 123 table of contents appropriate. the key components of the company disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing. the company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. information security policies are designed to protect the company information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. these policies cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable devices. the company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access. the company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the company ongoing operations. these may include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. the company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors performance. it is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future. the supplier risk management program is responsible for the policies, procedures, organizations, governance and supporting technology to ensure adequate risk management controls between the company and its third-party suppliers as it relates to information security, disaster recoverability, and other key areas. the program ensures company compliance with regulatory requirements. legal and regulatory risk. legal risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 and risk factors in part i, item 1a). the company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. the company, principally through the legal and compliance division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the company policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. in connection with its businesses, the company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. in addition, the company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. the legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the company. 124 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the european sovereign debt crisis or fiscal matters in the u.s., could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as if we were to incur large trading losses, are downgraded by the rating agencies, suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. global markets and economic conditions have been negatively impacted by the european sovereign debt crisis. the continued uncertainty over the outcome of the e.u. governments financial support programs and the possibility that other e.u. member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. in particular, it has and could in the future disrupt equity markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of e.u. members. these factors, or market perceptions concerning such matters, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. in particular, in connection with certain of our institutional securities business segment activities, we have exposure to european peripheral countries, which are defined as exposures in greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain (the european peripherals ). at december 31, 2012, exposure before hedges to the european peripherals was approximately $7,590 million and net exposure after hedges was approximately $6,346 million. exposure includes obligations from sovereign governments, corporations, and financial institutions. in addition, at december 31, 2012, we had european peripherals exposure for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $81 million. see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk credit risk country risk exposure select european countries in part ii, item 7a herein. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in part ii, item 7 herein. 20 table of contents our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. our long-term credit ratings by moody investor services, inc ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor financial services llc ( s&amp;p ) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as split ratings ). at december 31, 2012, the amounts of future potential collateral amounts that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such otc trading agreements and other agreements in the event of a downgrade of our long-term credit rating under various scenarios for moody and s&amp;p were as follows: $472 million (baa1 moody s/bbb+ s&amp;p); $2,556 million (baa2 moody s/bbb s&amp;p); and $3,574 million (baa3 moody s/bbb- s&amp;p). in addition, we are required to pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. at december 31, 2012, the increased collateral requirement at certain exchanges and clearing organizations under various scenarios was zero (baa1 moody s/bbb+ s&amp;p); zero (baa2 moody s/bbb s&amp;p); and $128 million (baa3 moody s/bbb- s&amp;p). we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank company subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economy. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and continue to be, including as a result of the european sovereign debt crisis, and uncertainty regarding u.s. fiscal matters. in particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. continued turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 21 table of contents our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including the wealth management joint venture and with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc. ( mufg )); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of our risk management policies; and technological changes; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our global wealth management group business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset management business segment. we may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. 22 table of contents our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in the last several years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. we also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. between 2004 and december 31, 2012, we sponsored approximately $148 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities ( rmbs ) primarily containing u.s. residential loans. of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21 billion of loans. at december 31, 2012, the current unpaid principal balance ( upb ) for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $20.1 billion and the cumulative losses associated with u.s. rmbs were approximately $12.3 billion. we did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $80 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. we have not sponsored any u.s. rmbs transactions since 2007. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ). between 2004 and december 31, 2012, we originated approximately $45 billion and $21 billion of u.s. and non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into cmbs sponsored by us. at december 31, 2012, the current upb for all u.s. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $33.2 billion. at december 31, 2012, the current upb when known for all non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $6.3 billion and the upb at the time of sale when the current upb is not known was $0.4 billion. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis-related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future. we continue to monitor our real estate-related activities in order to manage our exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. see legal proceedings residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters in part i, item 3 herein. 23 table of contents credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in the global wealth management group business segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1 herein. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. 24 table of contents we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems. like other financial services firms, we have been and continue to be subject to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other events. events such as these could have a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, electrical, environmental, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements and standards or litigation. legal, regulatory and compliance risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal, regulatory and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business, and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, or are currently considering enacting, financial market reforms that have resulted and could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime that will impose heightened capital and liquidity requirements to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of the dodd-frank act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective following extended transition periods or through numerous rule makings by multiple government agencies, and only a portion of those rulemakings have been completed. many of the changes required by the dodd-frank act could in the future materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to 25 table of contents additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. for example, the volcker rule provision of the dodd-frank act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. although the volcker rule became effective on july 21, 2012, compliance is not required until july 21, 2014, subject to possible extensions. u.s. regulators issued proposed regulations to implement the volcker rule in 2011 but have not yet issued final regulations. there remains considerable uncertainty about what the final version of those regulations will be or the impact they may have on our businesses. even after the final rules are issued, there may be continued uncertainty regarding their interpretation and impact on our businesses. we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the volcker rule, and when the regulations are final, we will complete a review of our relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the volcker rule. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for example, recently, the level of litigation activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from residential mortgage claims that have not yet been notified to us or are not yet determined to be material. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. 26 table of contents our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the federal reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and europe; we own transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. we continue to engage in discussions with the federal reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act by the end of any extensions of the grace period. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for example, the u.s. and the e.u. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and 27 table of contents liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. in addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates. risk management. our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. for example, market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 28 table of contents competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading models. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the 29 table of contents outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, joint ventures (including the wealth management joint venture) or strategic alliances (including with mufg), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. for example, the ownership arrangements relating to the company joint venture in japan with mufg of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. mufg and the company have integrated their respective japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, mumss and msms. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters japanese securities joint venture in part ii, item 7 herein. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and 30 table of contents enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 111risk factors 22 risk factors. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 herein. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the remaining sovereign debt issues in europe or fiscal matters in the u.s., could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as if we were to incur large trading losses, are downgraded by the rating agencies, suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. for example, in november 2013, moody investor services, inc. ( moody ) took certain ratings actions with respect to eight large u.s. banking groups, including downgrading us, to remove certain uplift from the u.s. government support in their ratings. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in part ii, item 7 herein. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody and standard &amp; poor financial services llc. at december 31, 2013, the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers were $1,522 million and an incremental $3,321 million, respectively. 22 table of contents we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank company subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economy. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and continue to be, including as a result of the european sovereign debt crisis, and uncertainty regarding u.s. fiscal matters. in particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. continued turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk in part ii, item 7a. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary), and legal and regulatory actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including with mitsubishi ufj financial 23 table of contents group, inc. ( mufg )); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of our risk management policies; and technological changes and risks, including cybersecurity risks; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. we may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in the last several years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. 24 table of contents we also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. between 2004 and december 31, 2013, we sponsored approximately $148.0 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities ( rmbs ) primarily containing u.s. residential loans. of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47.0 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21.0 billion of loans. at december 31, 2013, the current unpaid principal balance ( upb ) for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $17.2 billion and the cumulative losses associated with u.s. rmbs were approximately $13.5 billion. we did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $79.9 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. we have not sponsored any u.s. rmbs transactions since 2007. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ). between 2004 and december 31, 2013, we originated approximately $50.6 billion and $13.0 billion of u.s. and non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into cmbs sponsored by us. at december 31, 2013, the current upb for all u.s. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $33.0 billion. at december 31, 2013, the current upb when known for all non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $3.0 billion and the upb at the time of sale when the current upb is not known was $0.4 billion. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief in the future. we continue to monitor our real estate-related activities in order to manage our exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. see legal proceedings residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters in part i, item 3 herein. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. 25 table of contents we also incur credit risk in the wealth management business segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that adverse difficult economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1 herein. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and the systems of third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business 26 table of contents activities, such as vendors. like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers have been and continue to be subject to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks, denial of service attacks and other events. the increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. events such as these could have a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage, client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. legal, regulatory and compliance risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal, regulatory and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business, and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, or are currently considering enacting, financial market reforms that have resulted and could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of the dodd-frank act became effective immediately, most other portions are effective following transition periods or through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, and although a large number of rules have been proposed, many are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. u.s. regulators also plan to propose additional regulations to implement the dodd-frank act. many of the changes required by the dodd-frank act could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of 27 table of contents assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, similar regulatory requirements are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators, which may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and, if adopted may adversely affect us. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. for example, the volcker rule provision of the dodd-frank act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. we are continuing our review of activities that may be affected by the volcker rule, including our trading operations and asset management activities, and are taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the volcker rule. given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain, and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for example, over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been, and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. 28 table of contents our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the federal reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s.; we own transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. for more information about the planned sale of our global oil merchanting business, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business segments institutional securities sale of global oil merchanting business in part ii, item 7 herein. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. we continue to engage in discussions with the federal reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for 29 table of contents example, the u.s. and the e.u. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. in addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates. risk management. our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our risk management strategies, including our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. as our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt with those changes. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management judgment. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. for example, market conditions during the financial crisis involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. for example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 30 table of contents competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing). our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for 31 table of contents us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with mufg), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. for example, the ownership arrangements relating to the company joint venture in japan with mufg of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. mufg and the company have integrated their respective japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, mumss and msms. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters japanese securities joint venture in part ii, item 7 herein. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 111 our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary), and legal and regulatory actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including with mitsubishi ufj financial 23 table of contents group, inc. ( mufg )); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of our risk management policies; and technological changes and risks, including cybersecurity risks; or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. we may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in the last several years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector. we finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. 24 table of contents we also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. these businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. between 2004 and december 31, 2013, we sponsored approximately $148.0 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities ( rmbs ) primarily containing u.s. residential loans. of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47.0 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21.0 billion of loans. at december 31, 2013, the current unpaid principal balance ( upb ) for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $17.2 billion and the cumulative losses associated with u.s. rmbs were approximately $13.5 billion. we did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $79.9 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. we have not sponsored any u.s. rmbs transactions since 2007. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ). between 2004 and december 31, 2013, we originated approximately $50.6 billion and $13.0 billion of u.s. and non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into cmbs sponsored by us. at december 31, 2013, the current upb for all u.s. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $33.0 billion. at december 31, 2013, the current upb when known for all non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $3.0 billion and the upb at the time of sale when the current upb is not known was $0.4 billion. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief in the future. we continue to monitor our real estate-related activities in order to manage our exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. see legal proceedings residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters in part i, item 3 herein. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through the institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. 25 table of contents we also incur credit risk in the wealth management business segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that adverse difficult economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1 herein. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a herein. we are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. in general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and the systems of third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business 26 table of contents activities, such as vendors. like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers have been and continue to be subject to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks, denial of service attacks and other events. the increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. events such as these could have a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage, client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. legal, regulatory and compliance risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal, regulatory and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a herein. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business, and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, or are currently considering enacting, financial market reforms that have resulted and could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of the dodd-frank act became effective immediately, most other portions are effective following transition periods or through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, and although a large number of rules have been proposed, many are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. u.s. regulators also plan to propose additional regulations to implement the dodd-frank act. many of the changes required by the dodd-frank act could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of 27 table of contents assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, similar regulatory requirements are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators, which may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and, if adopted may adversely affect us. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. for example, the volcker rule provision of the dodd-frank act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. we are continuing our review of activities that may be affected by the volcker rule, including our trading operations and asset management activities, and are taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the volcker rule. given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain, and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. for example, over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, we have been, and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material. for more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see legal proceedings in part i, item 3 herein. 28 table of contents our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies. we are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the u.s. and other governments. for example, the actions of the federal reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. in addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s.; we own transmontaigne inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. for more information about the planned sale of our global oil merchanting business, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations business segments institutional securities sale of global oil merchanting business in part ii, item 7 herein. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. we continue to engage in discussions with the federal reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. for 29 table of contents example, the u.s. and the e.u. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. in addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates. risk management. our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our risk management strategies, including our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. as our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt with those changes. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management judgment. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. for example, market conditions during the financial crisis involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. for example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a herein. 30 table of contents competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing). our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for 31 table of contents us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with mufg), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. for example, the ownership arrangements relating to the company joint venture in japan with mufg of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. mufg and the company have integrated their respective japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, mumss and msms. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters japanese securities joint venture in part ii, item 7 herein. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 herein. 32 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments. the company, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the sec regarding its periodic or current reports under the exchange act. there are no comments that remain unresolved that the company received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that the company believes are material. 33 table of contents item 2. properties. the company has offices, operations and data centers located around the world. the company properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. the company believes the facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. the company principal offices consist of the following properties: location owned/ leased lease expiration approximate square footage as of december 31, 2013(a) u.s. locations 1585 broadway new york, new york (global headquarters and institutional securities headquarters) owned n/a 1,346,500 square feet 2000 westchester avenue purchase, new york (wealth management headquarters) owned n/a 597,400 square feet 522 fifth avenue new york, new york (investment management headquarters) owned n/a 581,250 square feet new york, new york (several locations) leased 2014 2029 2,394,600 square feet brooklyn, new york (several locations) leased 2014 2023 344,100 square feet jersey city, new jersey (several locations) leased 2014 369,200 square feet international locations 20 bank street london (london headquarters) leased 2038 546,500 square feet canary wharf london leased(b) 2020 454,600 square feet 1 austin road west kowloon (hong kong headquarters) leased 2019 572,600 square feet sapporo yebisu garden place ebisu, shibuya-ku leased 2013 (c) 300,700 square feet otemachi financial city south tower otemachi, chiyoda-ku (tokyo headquarters) leased 2028 (c) 246,700 square feet (a) the indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space occupied by morgan stanley branch offices. (b) the company holds the freehold interest in the land and building. (c) the company began relocating its tokyo headquarters from yebisu garden place to otemachi financial city south tower beginning in december 2013. the relocation will be complete by march 31, 2014. 34 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings. in addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, the company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. the company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the company business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. the company expects future litigation accruals in general to continue to be elevated and the changes in accruals from period to period may fluctuate significantly, given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the company. in many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. the company cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings or investigations will be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation. subject to the foregoing, the company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the company, although the outcome of such proceedings or investigations could be material to the company operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the company revenues or income for such period. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, the company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief and, while the company has identified below certain proceedings that the company believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material. residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters. regulatory and governmental matters. the company is responding to subpoenas and requests for information from certain federal and state regulatory and governmental entities, including among others various members of the rmbs working group of the financial fraud enforcement task force, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related matters such as residential mortgage backed securities ( rmbs ), collateralized debt obligations ( cdos ), structured investment vehicles ( sivs ) and credit default swaps backed by or referencing mortgage pass- 35 table of contents through certificates. these matters include, but are not limited to, investigations related to the company due diligence on the loans that it purchased for securitization, the company communications with ratings agencies, the company disclosures to investors, and the company handling of servicing and foreclosure related issues. on january 30, 2014, the company reached an agreement in principle with the staff of the enforcement division of the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ) to resolve an investigation related to certain subprime rmbs transactions sponsored and underwritten by the company in 2007. pursuant to the agreement in principle, the company would be charged with violating sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the securities act, and the company would pay disgorgement and penalties in an amount of $275 million and would neither admit nor deny the sec findings. the sec has not yet presented the proposed settlement to the commission and no assurance can be given that it will be accepted. class actions. beginning in december 2007, several purported class action complaints were filed in the united states district court for the southern district of new york (the sdny ) asserting claims on behalf of participants in the company 401(k) plan and employee stock ownership plan against the company and other parties, including certain present and former directors and officers, under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ). in february 2008, these actions were consolidated in a single proceeding, styled in re morgan stanley erisa litigation . the consolidated complaint relates in large part to the company subprime and other mortgage related losses, but also includes allegations regarding the company disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. on march 16, 2011, a purported class action, styled coulter v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated et al. , was filed in the sdny asserting claims on behalf of participants in the company 401(k) plan and employee stock ownership plan against the company and certain current and former officers and directors for breach of fiduciary duties under erisa. the complaint alleges, among other things, that defendants knew or should have known that from january 2, 2008 to december 31, 2008, the plans investment in company stock was imprudent given the extraordinary risks faced by the company and its common stock during that period. on march 28, 2013, the court granted defendants motions to dismiss both actions. plaintiffs filed notices of appeal on june 27, 2013 in the united states court of appeals for the second circuit (the second circuit ) in both matters, which have been consolidated on appeal. on february 12, 2008, a purported class action, styled joel stratte-mcclure, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. , was filed in the sdny against the company and certain present and former executives asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of persons and entities who purchased shares of the company common stock during the period june 20, 2007 to december 19, 2007 and who suffered damages as a result of such purchases. the allegations in the amended complaint related in large part to the company subprime and other mortgage related losses, and also included allegations regarding the company disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. on august 8, 2011, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, which was granted on january 18, 2013. on may 29, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an appeal in the second circuit, which appeal is pending. on may 7, 2009, the company was named as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit brought under sections 11, 12 and 15 of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), which is now styled in re morgan stanley mortgage pass-through certificates litigation and is pending in the sdny. the third amended complaint, filed on september 30, 2011, alleges, among other things, that the registration statements and offering documents related to the offerings of certain mortgage pass-through certificates in 2006 contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. the plaintiffs seek, among other relief, class certification, unspecified compensatory and rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. on january 31, 2013, plaintiffs filed a fourth amended complaint, in which they purport to represent investors who purchased approximately $7.82 billion in mortgage pass-through certificates issued in 2006 by 13 trusts. on august 30, 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. on may 14, 2009, the company was named as one of several underwriter defendants in a purported class action lawsuit brought under sections 11, 12 and 15 of the securities act which is now styled in re indymac mortgage-backed securities litigation and is pending in the sdny. the claims against the company relate to offerings of mortgage pass-through certificates issued by several trusts sponsored by affiliates of indymac bancorp during 36 table of contents 2006 and 2007. plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the registration statements and offering documents related to the offerings of certain mortgage pass-through certificates contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. the plaintiffs seek, among other relief, class certification, unspecified compensatory and rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. the amount of the certificates underwritten by the company at issue in the litigation was approximately $1.68 billion. on august 17, 2012, the court granted class certification with respect to one offering underwritten by the company. on august 30, 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion to expand the certified class to include additional offerings. indymac bank, which was the sponsor of these securitizations, filed for bankruptcy on july 31, 2008, and the company ability to be indemnified by indymac bank is limited. on october 25, 2010, the company, certain affiliates and pinnacle performance limited, a special purpose vehicle ( spv ), were named as defendants in a purported class action related to securities issued by the spv in singapore, commonly referred to as pinnacle notes. the case is styled ge dandong, et al. v. pinnacle performance ltd., et al. and is pending in the sdny. an amended complaint was filed on october 22, 2012. the court denied defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint on august 22, 2013 and granted class certification on october 17, 2013. on october 30, 2013, defendants filed a petition for permission to appeal the court decision granting class certification. on january 31, 2014, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint. the second amended complaint alleges that the defendants engaged in a fraudulent scheme to defraud investors by structuring the pinnacle notes to fail and benefited subsequently from the securities failure. in addition, the second amended complaint alleges that the securities offering materials contained material misstatements or omissions regarding the securities underlying assets and the alleged conflicts of interest between the defendants and the investors. the second amended complaint asserts common law claims of fraud, aiding and abetting fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraudulent inducement, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. plaintiffs seek damages of approximately $138.7 million, rescission, punitive damages, and interest. other litigation. on december 23, 2009, the federal home loan bank of seattle filed a complaint against the company and another defendant in the superior court of the state of washington, styled federal home loan bank of seattle v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. the amended complaint, filed on september 28, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $233 million. the complaint raises claims under the washington state securities act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on october 18, 2010, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the action. by orders dated june 23, 2011 and july 18, 2011, the court denied defendants omnibus motion to dismiss plaintiff amended complaint and on august 15, 2011, the court denied the company individual motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on march 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of san francisco filed two complaints against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california. these actions are styled federal home loan bank of san francisco v. credit suisse securities (usa) llc, et al. , and federal home loan bank of san francisco v. deutsche bank securities inc. et al. , respectively. amended complaints were filed on june 10, 2010. the amended complaints allege that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company in these cases was approximately $704 million and $276 million, respectively. the complaints raise claims under both the federal securities laws and california law and seek, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on august 11, 2011, plaintiff securities act claims were dismissed with prejudice. the defendants filed answers to the amended complaints on october 7, 2011. on february 9, 2012, defendants demurrers with respect to all other claims were overruled. on december 20, 2013, plaintiff negligent misrepresentation claims were dismissed with prejudice. a bellwether trial is currently scheduled to begin in september 2014. the company is not a defendant in connection with the securitizations at issue in that trial. 37 table of contents on july 15, 2010, the charles schwab corp. filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california, styled the charles schwab corp. v. bnp paribas securities corp., et al . the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to one of plaintiff subsidiaries of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff subsidiary by the company was approximately $180 million. the complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and california law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. plaintiff filed an amended complaint on august 2, 2010. on september 22, 2011, defendants filed demurrers to the amended complaint. on october 13, 2011, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claims brought under the securities act. on january 27, 2012, the court, in a ruling from the bench, substantially overruled defendants demurrers. on march 5, 2012, the plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. on april 10, 2012, the company filed a demurrer to certain causes of action in the second amended complaint, which the court overruled on july 24, 2012. the company filed its answer to the second amended complaint on august 3, 2012. an initial trial of certain of plaintiff claims is scheduled to begin in july 2015. on july 15, 2010, china development industrial bank ( cdib ) filed a complaint against the company, which is styled china development industrial bank v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the stack 2006-1 cdo. the complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the company misrepresented the risks of the stack 2006-1 cdo to cdib, and that the company knew that the assets backing the cdo were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with cdib. the complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that cdib alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of cdib obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs. on march 10, 2011, the company filed its answer to the complaint. on october 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of chicago filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the circuit court of the state of illinois, styled federal home loan bank of chicago v. bank of america funding corporation et al . the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans and asserts claims under illinois law. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company at issue in the action was approximately $203 million. the complaint seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on march 24, 2011, the court presiding over federal home loan bank of chicago v. bank of america funding corporation et al. granted plaintiff leave to file an amended complaint. the company filed its answer on december 21, 2012. on december 13, 2013, the court entered an order dismissing all claims related to one of the securitizations at issue. on april 20, 2011, the federal home loan bank of boston filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the commonwealth of massachusetts styled federal home loan bank of boston v. ally financial, inc. f/k/a gmac llc et al . an amended complaint was filed on june 19, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $385 million. the amended complaint raises claims under the massachusetts uniform securities act, the massachusetts consumer protection act and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on may 26, 2011, defendants removed the case to the united states district court for the district of massachusetts. on october 11, 2012, defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on september 30, 2013. the defendants filed an answer to the amended complaint on december 16, 2013. on july 5, 2011, allstate insurance company and certain of its affiliated entities filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled allstate insurance company, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al . an amended complaint was filed on september 9, 2011 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and 38 table of contents material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued and/or sold to plaintiffs by the company was approximately $104 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud and negligent misrepresentation and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages associated with plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on march 15, 2013, the court denied in substantial part the defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which order the company appealed on april 11, 2013. on may 3, 2013, the company filed its answer to the amended complaint. on july 18, 2011, the western and southern life insurance company and certain affiliated companies filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the court of common pleas in ohio, styled western and southern life insurance company, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., et al . an amended complaint was filed on april 2, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of the certificates allegedly sold to plaintiffs by the company was approximately $153 million. the amended complaint raises claims under the ohio securities act, federal securities laws, and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. the company filed its answer on august 17, 2012. trial is currently scheduled to begin in may 2015. on november 4, 2011, the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ), as receiver for franklin bank s.s.b, filed two complaints against the company in the district court of the state of texas. each was styled federal deposit insurance corporation, as receiver for franklin bank s.s.b v. morgan stanley &amp; company llc f/k/a morgan stanley &amp; co. inc. and alleged that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly underwritten and sold to plaintiff by the company in these cases was approximately $67 million and $35 million, respectively. the complaints each raised claims under both federal securities law and the texas securities act and each seeks, among other things, compensatory damages associated with plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on march 20, 2012, the company filed answers to the complaints in both cases. on june 7, 2012, the two cases were consolidated. on january 10, 2013, the company filed a motion for summary judgment and special exceptions with respect to plaintiff claims. on february 6, 2013, the fdic filed an amended consolidated complaint. on february 25, 2013, the company filed a motion for summary judgment and special exceptions, which motion was denied in substantial part on april 26, 2013. on may 3, 2013, the fdic filed a second amended consolidated complaint. trial is currently scheduled to begin in november 2014. on january 20, 2012, sealink funding limited filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled sealink funding limited v. morgan stanley, et al . plaintiff purports to be the assignee of claims of certain special purpose vehicles ( spvs ) formerly sponsored by sachsenlb europe. an amended complaint was filed on may 21, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to the spvs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold by the company was approximately $507 million. the amended complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages as well as punitive damages associated with plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on march 20, 2013, plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. on may 3, 2013, the company filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. on january 25, 2012, dexia sa/nv and certain of its affiliated entities filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled dexia sa/nv et al. v. morgan stanley, et al . an amended complaint was filed on may 24, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold to plaintiffs by the 39 table of contents company was approximately $626 million. the amended complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages as well as punitive damages associated with plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on october 16, 2013, the court granted the defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on november 18, 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal and a motion to renew their opposition to defendants motion to dismiss. on april 25, 2012, the prudential insurance company of america and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the superior court of the state of new jersey, styled the prudential insurance company of america, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company is approximately $1 billion. the complaint raises claims under the new jersey uniform securities law, as well as common law claims of negligent misrepresentation, fraud and tortious interference with contract and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages, punitive damages, rescission and rescissionary damages associated with plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on october 16, 2012, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint which, among other things, increases the total amount of the certificates at issue by approximately $80 million, adds causes of action for fraudulent inducement, equitable fraud, aiding and abetting fraud, and violations of the new jersey rico statute, and includes a claim for treble damages. on march 15, 2013, the court denied the defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on april 26, 2013, the defendants filed an answer to the amended complaint. on august 7, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-4sl (together, the trust ) against the company. the matter is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on october 8, 2012, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 8, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-14sl, morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2007-4sl against the company. the complaint is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc . and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on october 9, 2012, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 17, 2013, the company filed its answer to the complaint. on september 26, 2013, and october 7, 2013, the company and the plaintiffs, respectively, filed notices of appeal with respect to the court august 16, 2013 decision. on august 10, 2012, the fdic, as receiver for colonial bank, filed a complaint against the company in the circuit court of montgomery, alabama styled federal deposit insurance corporation as receiver for colonial bank v. citigroup mortgage loan trust inc. et al .. the complaint alleges that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to colonial bank of a mortgage pass-through certificate backed by a securitization trust containing residential loans. the complaint raises claims under federal 40 table of contents securities law and the alabama securities act and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages. the total amount of the certificate allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to colonial bank was approximately $65 million. on september 13, 2013, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint. defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on november 12, 2013. on september 28, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx against the company styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., pending in the supreme court of ny. u.s. bank filed an amended complaint on january 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on march 18, 2013, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on october 22, 2012, asset management fund d/b/a amf funds and certain of its affiliated funds filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled asset management fund d/b/a amf funds et al v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $122 million. the complaint asserts causes of action against the company for, among other things, common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, monetary and punitive damages. on december 3, 2012, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on july 18, 2013, the court dismissed claims with respect to seven certificates purchased by the plaintiff. the remaining claims relate to certificates with an original balance of $10.6 million. on september 12, 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal concerning the court decision granting in part and denying in part the defendants motion to dismiss. defendants filed a notice of cross-appeal on september 26, 2013. on december 14, 2012, royal park investments sa/nv filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. merrill lynch et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans totaling approximately $628 million. on march 15, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on june 17, 2013, the court signed a joint proposed order and stipulation allowing plaintiffs to replead their complaint and defendants to withdraw their motion to dismiss without prejudice. on october 24, 2013, plaintiff filed a new complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. morgan stanley et al. the new complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $597 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, negligent misrepresentation, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on february 3, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 10, 2013, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-10sl against the company. the complaint is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the company to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, and interest. on march 11, 2013, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. 41 table of contents on january 31, 2013, hsh nordbank ag and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled hsh nordbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $524 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on april 12, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on february 14, 2013, bank hapoalim b.m. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled bank hapoalim b.m. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $141 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on april 26, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on march 7, 2013, the federal housing finance agency filed a summons with notice on behalf of the trustee of the saxon asset securities trust, series 2007-1, against the company and an affiliate. the matter is styled federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the saxon asset securities trust, series 2007-1 v. saxon funding management llc and morgan stanley and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the notice asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $593 million, breached various representations and warranties. the notice seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, indemnity, and interest. on may 3, 2013, plaintiffs in deutsche zentral-genossenschaftsbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $694 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on july 12, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on may 17, 2013, plaintiff in ikb international s.a. in liquidation, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $132 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on july 26, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on july 2, 2013, the trustee, deutsche bank became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 (msac 2007-nc1) v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, as trustee for the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 v. morgan stanley abs capital i, inc. on 42 table of contents february 3, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.25 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission and interest. on july 8, 2013, plaintiff filed a complaint in morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-2ax, by u.s. bank national association, solely in its capacity as trustee v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc ., and greenpoint mortgage funding, inc. the complaint, filed in the supreme court of ny, asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages and interest. on august 22, 2013, the company a filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 5, 2013, landesbank baden-w&uuml;rttemberg and two affiliates filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny styled landesbank baden-w&uuml;rttemberg et al. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $50 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for, among other things, common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission based upon mutual mistake, and seeks, among other things, rescission, compensatory damages, and punitive damages. on october 4, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 16, 2013, plaintiffs in national credit union administration board v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated, et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the united states district court for the district of kansas. the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates issued by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $567 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for violations of section 11 and section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, violations of the california corporate securities law of 1968, and violations of the kansas blue sky law and seeks, among other things, rescissionary and compensatory damages. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on november 4, 2013. on december 27, 2013, the court granted the motion to dismiss in substantial part. the surviving claims relate to one certificate purchased by the plaintiff for approximately $17 million. on august 26, 2013, a complaint was filed against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled phoenix light sf limited et al v. morgan stanley et al . the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs, or their assignors, of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold to plaintiffs or their assignors by the company was approximately $344 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation and rescission based on mutual mistake and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages, punitive damages or alternatively rescission or rescissionary damages associated with the purchase of such certificates. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss on december 13, 2013. on september 23, 2013, plaintiffs in national credit union administration board v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the sdny. the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates issued by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was 43 table of contents approximately $417 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for violations of section 11 and section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, violations of the texas securities act, and violations of the illinois securities law of 1953 and seeks, among other things, rescissionary and compensatory damages. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on november 13, 2013. on january 22, 2014, the court granted defendants motion to dismiss with respect to claims arising under the securities act of 1933 and denied defendants motion to dismiss with respect to claims arising under texas securities act and the illinois securities law of 1953. on november 6, 2013, deutsche bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 (msac 2007-nc3) v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, solely in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.3 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission, interest and costs. on december 16, 2013, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on december 24, 2013, commerzbank ag london branch filed a summons with notice against the company and others in the supreme court of ny, styled commerzbank ag london branch v. ubs ag et al. plaintiff purports to be the assignee of claims of certain other entities. the notice alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff assignors of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $207 million. the notice identifies causes of action against the company for, among other things, common-law fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, civil conspiracy, tortious interference and unjust enrichment. the notice identifies the relief sought to include, among other things, monetary damages of at least approximately $207 million and punitive damages. on december 30, 2013, wilmington trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-12, filed a complaint against the company. the matter is styled wilmington trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc et al. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, interest and costs. on january 15, 2014, the fdic, as receiver for united western bank filed a complaint against the company and others in the district court of the state of colorado, styled federal deposit insurance corporation, as receiver for united western bank v. banc of america funding corp., et al. the complaint alleges that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to united western bank of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold to united western bank by the company was approximately $75 million. the complaint raises claims under both federal securities law and the colorado securities act and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages associated with plaintiff purchase of such certificates. other matters. on a case-by-case basis the company has entered into agreements to toll the statute of limitations applicable to potential civil claims related to rmbs, cdos and other mortgage-related products and services when the company has concluded that it is in its interest to do so. 44 table of contents on october 18, 2011, the company received a letter from gibbs &amp; bruns llp (the law firm ), which is purportedly representing a group of investment advisers and holders of mortgage pass-through certificates issued by rmbs trusts that were sponsored or underwritten by the company. the letter asserted that the law firm clients collectively hold 25% or more of the voting rights in 17 rmbs trusts sponsored or underwritten by the company and that these trusts have an aggregate outstanding balance exceeding $6 billion. the letter alleged generally that large numbers of mortgages in these trusts were sold or deposited into the trusts based on false and/or fraudulent representations and warranties by the mortgage originators, sellers and/or depositors. the letter also alleged generally that there is evidence suggesting that the company has failed prudently to service mortgage loans in these trusts. on january 31, 2012, the law firm announced that its clients hold over 25% of the voting rights in 69 rmbs trusts securing over $25 billion of rmbs sponsored or underwritten by the company, and that its clients had issued instructions to the trustees of these trusts to open investigations into allegedly ineligible mortgages held by these trusts. the law firm press release also indicated that the law firm clients anticipate that they may provide additional instructions to the trustees, as needed, to further the investigations. on september 19, 2012, the company received two purported notices of non-performance from the law firm purportedly on behalf of the holders of significant voting rights in various trusts securing over $28 billion of residential mortgage backed securities sponsored or underwritten by the company. the notice purports to identify certain covenants in pooling and servicing agreements ( psas ) that the holders allege that the servicer and master servicer failed to perform, and alleges that each of these failures has materially affected the rights of certificateholders and constitutes an ongoing event of default under the relevant psas. on november 2, 2012, the company responded to the letters, denying the allegations therein. commercial mortgage related matter. on january 25, 2011, the company was named as a defendant in the bank of new york mellon trust, national association v. morgan stanley mortgage capital, inc., a litigation pending in the sdny. the suit, brought by the trustee of a series of commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, alleges that the company breached certain representations and warranties with respect to an $81 million commercial mortgage loan that was originated and transferred to the trust by the company. the complaint seeks, among other things, to have the company repurchase the loan and pay additional monetary damages. on june 27, 2011, the court denied the company motion to dismiss, but directed the filing of an amended complaint. on july 29, 2011, the company filed its answer to the first amended complaint. on june 20, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion for summary judgment, and denied the plaintiff motion for summary judgment. on october 30, 2013, the company filed a supplemental motion for summary judgment. matters related to the cds market. on july 1, 2013, the european commission ( ec ) issued a statement of objections ( so ) addressed to twelve financial firms (including the company), the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. ( isda ) and markit group limited ( markit ) and various affiliates alleging that, between 2006 and 2009, the recipients breached european union competition law by taking and refusing to take certain actions in an effort to prevent the development of exchange traded credit default swap ( cds ) products. the so indicates that the ec plans to impose remedial measures and fines on the recipients. the company and the other recipients filed a response to the so on january 21, 2014. the company and others have also responded to an investigation by the antitrust division of the united states department of justice related to the cds market. beginning in may 2013, twelve financial firms (including the company), as well as isda and markit, were named as defendants in multiple purported antitrust class actions now consolidated into a single proceeding in the sdny styled in re: credit default swaps antitrust litigation . plaintiffs allege that defendants violated united states antitrust laws from 2008 to present in connection with their alleged efforts to prevent the development of exchange traded cds products. the complaints seek, among other relief, certification of a class of plaintiffs who purchased cds from defendants in the united states, treble damages and injunctive relief. 45 table of contents the following matters were terminated during or following the quarter ended december 31, 2013: in re: lehman brothers equity/debt securities litigation , which had been pending in the sdny, related to several offerings of debt and equity securities issued by lehman brothers holdings inc. during 2007 and 2008. a group of underwriter defendants, including the company, settled the main litigation on december 2, 2012. the remaining opt-out claims and appeals have now been resolved. stichting pensioenfonds abp v. morgan stanley, et al ., which had been pending in the supreme court of ny, involved allegations that the defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to plaintiff in connection with the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on november 15, 2013, the parties entered into an agreement to settle the litigation. on december 3, 2013, the court dismissed the action. bayerische landesbank, new york branch v. morgan stanley, et al ., which had been pending in the supreme court of ny, involved allegations that the defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to plaintiff in connection with the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on december 6, 2013, the parties entered into an agreement to settle the litigation. on january 2, 2014, the court dismissed the action. seagull point, llc, individually and on behalf of morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust 2007 he-5 v. wmc mortgage corp., et al ., which had been pending in the supreme court of ny, involved allegations that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties. on january 9, 2014, plaintiff filed a notice of discontinuance, dismissing the action against all defendants. federal home loan bank of chicago v. bank of america securities llc, et al ., which had been pending in the superior court of the state of california, involved allegations that the defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to plaintiff in connection with the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on december 6, 2013, plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of all of its claims against the company. on january 27, 2014, the court dismissed the action. metropolitan life insurance company, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. , which had been pending in the supreme court of ny, involved allegations that the defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to plaintiffs in connection with the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on january 23, 2014, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation. cambridge place investment management inc. v. morgan stanley &amp; co., inc., et al. , which had been pending in the superior court of the commonwealth of massachusetts, involved allegations that the defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to plaintiff in connection with the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on february 11, 2014, the parties entered into an agreement to settle the litigation. on february 20, 2014, the court dismissed the action. federal housing finance agency, as conservator v. morgan stanley et al. , which had been pending in the sdny, involved allegations that the defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to plaintiff in connection with the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on february 7, 2014, the parties entered into an agreement to settle the litigation. on february 20, 2014, the court dismissed the action. on december 12, 2013, the company entered into an agreement with american international group, inc. ( aig ) to resolve aig potential claims against the company related to aig purchases of certain mortgage pass-through certificates sponsored or underwritten by the company backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 46 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. morgan stanley common stock trades on the nyse under the symbol ms. as of february 19, 2014, the company had 79,140 holders of record; however, the company believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number. the table below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of the company common stock as reported by bloomberg financial markets and the amount of any cash dividends per share of the company common stock declared by its board of directors for such quarter. low sale price high sale price dividends 2013: fourth quarter $ 26.41 $ 31.85 $ 0.05 third quarter $ 23.83 $ 29.50 $ 0.05 second quarter $ 20.16 $ 27.17 $ 0.05 first quarter $ 19.32 $ 24.47 $ 0.05 2012: fourth quarter $ 13.49 $ 19.45 $ 0.05 third quarter $ 12.29 $ 18.50 $ 0.05 second quarter $ 12.26 $ 20.05 $ 0.05 first quarter $ 13.49 $ 21.19 $ 0.05 47 table of contents the table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the company of its common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended december 31, 2013. issuer purchases of equity securities (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs(c) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs month #1 (october 1, 2013 october 31, 2013) share repurchase program(a) 1,495,000 $ 29.26 1,495,000 $ 1,394 employee transactions(b) 172,249 $ 27.46 month #2 (november 1, 2013 november 30, 2013) share repurchase program(a) 4,038,832 $ 29.65 4,038,832 $ 1,274 employee transactions(b) 56,206 $ 30.10 month #3 (december 1, 2013 december 31, 2013) share repurchase program(a) 2,087,000 $ 30.81 2,087,000 $ 1,210 employee transactions(b) 170,552 $ 31.19 total share repurchase program(a) 7,620,832 $ 29.89 7,620,832 $ 1,210 employee transactions(b) 399,007 $ 29.43 (a) on december 19, 2006, the company announced that its board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the company outstanding stock under a share repurchase program (the share repurchase program ). the share repurchase program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. the share repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date. share repurchases by the company are subject to regulatory approval. in july 2013, the company received no objection from the federal reserve to repurchase up to $500 million of the company outstanding common stock under rules permitting annual capital distributions (12 code of federal regulations 225.8, capital planning ), of which approximately $150 million as of december 31, 2013 may yet be purchased until march 31, 2014. for further information, see liquidity and capital resources capital management in part i, item 2. (b) includes: (1) shares delivered or attested in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee and director stock options (granted under employee and director stock compensation plans) who exercised options; (2) shares withheld, delivered or attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares; (3) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon the delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock units; and (4) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset the cash payment for fractional shares. the company employee and director stock compensation plans provide that the value of the shares withheld, delivered or attested, shall be valued using the fair market value of the company common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs, using a valuation methodology established by the company. (c) share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the company deems appropriate. *** 48 table of contents stock performance graph. the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of the company common stock, the s&amp;p 500 stock index ( s&amp;p 500 ) and the s&amp;p 500 financials index ( s5finl ) for the last five years. the graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on december 31, 2008 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. this graph does not forecast future performance of the company common stock. ms s&amp;p 500 s5finl 12/31/2008 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 12/31/2009 $ 187.93 $ 126.45 $ 117.15 12/31/2010 $ 174.03 $ 145.49 $ 131.36 12/31/2011 $ 97.59 $ 148.55 $ 108.95 12/30/2012 $ 124.84 $ 172.31 $ 140.27 12/31/2013 $ 206.40 $ 228.10 $ 190.19 49 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. morgan stanley selected financial data (dollars in millions, except share and per share data) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 income statement data: revenues: investment banking $ 5,246 $ 4,758 $ 4,991 $ 5,122 $ 5,020 trading 9,359 6,990 12,384 9,393 7,723 investments 1,777 742 573 1,825 (1,034 ) commissions and fees 4,629 4,253 5,343 4,909 4,210 asset management, distribution and administration fees 9,638 9,008 8,409 7,843 5,802 other 990 556 176 1,235 672 total non-interest revenues 31,639 26,307 31,876 30,327 22,393 interest income 5,209 5,692 7,234 7,288 7,468 interest expense 4,431 5,897 6,883 6,394 6,678 net interest 778 (205 ) 351 894 790 net revenues 32,417 26,102 32,227 31,221 23,183 non-interest expenses: compensation and benefits 16,277 15,615 16,325 15,860 14,287 other 11,658 9,967 9,792 9,154 7,753 total non-interest expenses 27,935 25,582 26,117 25,014 22,040 income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,482 520 6,110 6,207 1,143 provision for (benefit from) income taxes 826 (237 ) 1,414 743 (298 ) income from continuing operations 3,656 757 4,696 5,464 1,441 discontinued operations(1): gain (loss) from discontinued operations (72 ) (48 ) (170 ) 600 (127 ) provision for (benefit from) income taxes (29 ) (7 ) (119 ) 362 (92 ) net gain (loss) from discontinued operations (43 ) (41 ) (51 ) 238 (35 ) net income 3,613 716 4,645 5,702 1,406 net income applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests(2) 222 124 net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests(2) 459 524 535 999 60 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 2,932 $ 68 $ 4,110 $ 4,703 $ 1,346 preferred stock dividends 277 98 2,043 1,109 2,253 earnings (loss) applicable to morgan stanley common shareholders(3) $ 2,655 $ (30 ) $ 2,067 $ 3,594 $ (907 ) amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income from continuing operations $ 2,975 $ 138 $ 4,168 $ 4,478 $ 1,404 net gain (loss) from discontinued operations (43 ) (70 ) (58 ) 225 (58 ) net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 2,932 $ 68 $ 4,110 $ 4,703 $ 1,346 50 table of contents 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 per share data: earnings (loss) per basic common share(4): income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.42 $ 0.02 $ 1.28 $ 2.49 $ (0.72 ) net gain (loss) from discontinued operations (0.03 ) (0.04 ) (0.03 ) 0.15 (0.05 ) earnings (loss) per basic common share $ 1.39 $ (0.02 ) $ 1.25 $ 2.64 $ (0.77 ) earnings (loss) per diluted common share(4): income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.38 $ 0.02 $ 1.27 $ 2.45 $ (0.72 ) net gain (loss) from discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.04 ) (0.04 ) 0.18 (0.05 ) earnings (loss) per diluted common share $ 1.36 $ (0.02 ) $ 1.23 $ 2.63 $ (0.77 ) book value per common share(5) $ 32.24 $ 30.70 $ 31.42 $ 31.49 $ 27.26 dividends declared per common share $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.17 balance sheet and other operating data: total assets $ 832,702 $ 780,960 $ 749,898 $ 807,698 $ 771,462 total deposits 112,379 83,266 65,662 63,812 62,215 long-term borrowings 153,575 169,571 184,234 192,457 193,374 morgan stanley shareholders equity 65,921 62,109 62,049 57,211 46,688 return on average common equity(6) 4.3 % n/m 3.8 % 9.0 % n/m average common shares outstanding(3): basic 1,905,823,882 1,885,774,276 1,654,708,640 1,361,670,938 1,185,414,871 diluted 1,956,519,738 1,918,811,270 1,675,271,669 1,411,268,971 1,185,414,871 n/m not meaningful. (1) prior-period amounts have been recast for discontinued operations. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for information on discontinued operations. (2) information includes 100%, 65% and 51% ownership of the retail securities joint venture between the company and citigroup inc. (the wealth management jv ) effective june 28, 2013, september 17, 2012 and may 31, 2009, respectively (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8). (3) amounts shown are used to calculate earnings per basic and diluted common share. (4) for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share, see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in see also notes 8 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for additional information about the company financing receivables and lending commitments, respectively. 65 table of contents institutional securities income statement information 2013 2012(1) 2011(1) (dollars in millions) revenues: investment banking $ 4,377 $ 3,930 $ 4,240 trading 8,147 6,002 11,425 investments 707 219 239 commissions and fees 2,425 2,176 2,849 asset management, distribution and administration fees 280 242 206 other 608 203 (236 ) total non-interest revenues 16,544 12,772 18,723 interest income 3,572 4,224 5,860 interest expense 4,673 5,971 6,900 net interest (1,101 ) (1,747 ) (1,040 ) net revenues 15,443 11,025 17,683 compensation and benefits 6,823 6,978 7,567 non-compensation expenses 7,751 5,735 5,566 total non-interest expenses 14,574 12,713 13,133 income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 869 (1,688 ) 4,550 provision for (benefit from) income taxes (393 ) (1,061 ) 880 income (loss) from continuing operations 1,262 (627 ) 3,670 discontinued operations: gain (loss) from discontinued operations (81 ) (158 ) (216 ) provision for (benefit from) income taxes (29 ) (36 ) (110 ) net gains (losses) on discontinued operations (52 ) (122 ) (106 ) net income (loss) 1,210 (749 ) 3,564 net income applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests 1 4 net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 277 170 220 net income (loss) applicable to morgan stanley $ 932 $ (923 ) $ 3,344 amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income (loss) from continuing operations $ 984 $ (797 ) $ 3,450 net gains (losses) from discontinued operations (52 ) (126 ) (106 ) net income (loss) applicable to morgan stanley $ 932 $ (923 ) $ 3,344 (1) prior-period amounts have been recast to reflect the transfer of the international wealth management business from the wealth management business segment to the institutional securities business segment. supplemental financial information. investment banking. investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses. 66 table of contents investment banking revenues were as follows: 2013 2012 2011 (dollars in millions) advisory revenues $ 1,310 $ 1,369 $ 1,737 underwriting revenues: equity underwriting revenues 1,262 892 1,144 fixed income underwriting revenues 1,805 1,669 1,359 total underwriting revenues 3,067 2,561 2,503 total investment banking revenues $ 4,377 $ 3,930 $ 4,240 the following table presents the company volumes of announced and completed mergers and acquisitions, equity and equity-related offerings, and fixed income offerings: 2013(1) 2012(1) 2011(1) (dollars in billions) announced mergers and acquisitions(2) $ 520 $ 464 $ 510 completed mergers and acquisitions(2) 508 391 657 equity and equity-related offerings(3) 61 52 47 fixed income offerings(4) 287 284 231 (1) source: thomson reuters, data at january 14, 2014. announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. in addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction. (2) amounts include transactions of $100 million or more. announced mergers and acquisitions exclude terminated transactions. (3) amounts include rule 144a and public common stock, convertible and rights offerings. (4) amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. amounts also include publicly registered and rule 144a issues. amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances. sales and trading net revenues. sales and trading net revenues are composed of trading revenues; commissions and fees; asset management, distribution and administration fees; and net interest revenues (expenses). see business segments net revenues herein for information about the composition of the above-referenced components of sales and trading revenues. in assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the company views these net revenues in the aggregate. in addition, decisions relating to trading are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. this review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the company positions, and other related expenses. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for further information related to gains (losses) on derivative instruments. 67 table of contents sales and trading net revenues were as follows: 2013 2012(1) 2011(1) (dollars in millions) trading $ 8,147 $ 6,002 $ 11,425 commissions and fees 2,425 2,176 2,849 asset management, distribution and administration fees 280 242 206 net interest (1,101 ) (1,747 ) (1,040 ) total sales and trading net revenues $ 9,751 $ 6,673 $ 13,440 (1) all prior-year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. for further information, see business segments herein and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in other. other revenues were $389 million in 2013, an increase of 26% from 2012, primarily due to a gain on sale of the global stock plan business and realized gains on securities available for sale. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses increased 2% in 2013 from 2012. compensation and benefits expenses increased 6% in 2013 from 2012, primarily due to higher compensable revenues. non-compensation expenses decreased 8% in 2013 from 2012, primarily driven by the absence of platform integration costs and non-recurring technology 75 table of contents write-offs, partially offset by an impairment expense of $36 million related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investment funds in 2013 (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8). 2012 compared with 2011. transactional. investment banking. investment banking revenues increased 13% to $835 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher revenues from closed-end funds and higher fixed income underwriting. trading. trading revenues increased 6% to $1,043 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from structured notes and corporate bonds transactions, partially offset by lower revenues from municipal securities, corporate equity securities, government securities and foreign exchange transactions. commissions and fees. commissions and fees revenues decreased 17% to $2,080 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower client activity. asset management. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% to $7,190 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, and higher revenues from annuities and the bank deposit program held at citi depositories. the referral fees for deposits placed with citi-affiliated depository institutions were $383 million and $255 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. balances in the bank deposit program increased to $131 billion at december 31, 2012 from $111 billion at december 31, 2011. deposits held by company-affiliated fdic-insured depository institutions were $72 billion at december 31, 2012 and $56 billion at december 31, 2011. client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $554 billion and represented 33% of total client assets at december 31, 2012 compared with $468 billion and 30% at december 31, 2011, respectively. total client asset balances increased to $1,696 billion at december 31, 2012 from $1,566 billion at december 31, 2011, primarily due to the impact of market conditions and net new asset inflows. client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million increased to $1,237 billion at december 31, 2012 from $1,150 billion at december 31, 2011. global fee-based client asset flows for 2012 were $26.9 billion compared with $47.0 billion in 2011. net interest. net interest increased 9% to $1,567 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily resulting from higher revenues from the bank deposit program, interest on the available for sale portfolio and secured financing activities. other. other revenues were $309 million in 2012, a decrease of 24% from 2011, primarily due to lower gains on sales of securities available for sale. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses were flat in 2012 from 2011. compensation and benefits expenses decreased 1% from 2011, primarily due to lower compensable revenues, partially offset by higher expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. non-compensation expenses increased 2% in 2012 from 2011. information processing and communications expenses increased 7% in 2012, primarily due to higher telecommunications and data storage costs. marketing and business development expenses increased 10% from 2011, primarily due to higher costs associated with advertising and infrastructure, partially offset by lower costs associated with conferences and seminars. other expenses increased 5% in 2012, primarily 76 table of contents due to non-recurring costs related to wealth management jv integration (see executive summary significant items wealth management jv herein). professional services expenses decreased 7% in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower technology consulting costs. discontinued operations. on april 2, 2012, the company completed the sale of quilter, its retail wealth management business in the u.k., resulting in a pre-tax gain of $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 in the wealth management business segment. the results of quilter are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in credit rwas reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. for a further discussion of the company credit risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in item 7a. existing regulatory capital framework. under the federal reserve existing regulatory capital framework, total allowable capital is composed of tier 1 capital, which includes tier 1 common capital, and tier 2 capital. tier 1 common capital is defined as tier 1 capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements (qualifying trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests). tier 1 capital consists predominantly of common shareholders equity as well as qualifying preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets (excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year), an after-tax debt valuation adjustment and certain other deductions, including equity investments. the debt valuation adjustment in the table below represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain long-term and short-term borrowings that was attributable to the company own instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. for a further discussion of fair value, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations. the company future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at december 31, 2013 are summarized below: payments due in: at december 31, 2013 2014 2015-2016 2017-2018 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 24,193 $ 44,234 $ 41,603 $ 43,545 $ 153,575 other secured financings(1) 3,500 4,848 835 567 9,750 contractual interest payments(2) 5,458 8,994 5,819 19,673 39,944 time deposits(3) 2,432 51 2,483 operating leases office facilities(4) 672 1,277 1,035 2,712 5,696 operating leases equipment(4) 239 241 163 98 741 purchase obligations(5) 634 597 301 125 1,657 total(6) $ 37,128 $ 60,242 $ 49,756 $ 66,720 $ 213,846 (1) see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 24 institutional securities and wealth management. the company competitive position for its institutional securities and wealth management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. the company competes directly in the u.s. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. the company ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by the company credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, 6 table of contents trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. corporate clients may request that the company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to increase in the future. it is possible that competition may become even more intense as the company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on the company businesses. operating within the financial services industry on a global basis presents, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for the company to remain competitive. in addition, the company business is subject to increased regulation in the u.s. and abroad, while certain of its competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the company, thereby putting the company at a competitive disadvantage. the company has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. it is also possible that the company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing). investment management. competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including the company reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. the company alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and funds of funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers, who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the company. supervision and regulation. as a major financial services firm, the company is subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it conducts its business. moreover, in response to the 2007 2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way the company is regulated and conducts its business. these reforms include the dodd-frank act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted by the basel committee on banking supervision (the basel committee ), including basel iii, and the national implementation of those standards; and new resolution regimes that are being developed in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. it is likely that 2015 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the u.s. and other markets in which the company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the company business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. 7 table of contents financial holding company. consolidated supervision. the company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the bhc act since september 2008. as a bank holding company, the company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the federal reserve. as a result of the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve also gained heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of the company subsidiaries. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, the company is, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of its businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements, to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the bhc act added by the dodd-frank act referred to as the volcker rule and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. in addition, the consumer financial protection bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over the company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable. scope of permitted activities. the bhc act places limits on the activities of bank holding companies and financial holding companies, and grants the federal reserve authority to limit the company ability to conduct activities. the company must obtain federal reserve board ( frb ) approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the u.s. and internationally. since becoming a bank holding company, the company has disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the bhc act. in addition, the company continues to engage in discussions with the federal reserve regarding its commodities activities, as the bhc act also grandfathers activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that the company was engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within the company reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of the company commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then the company would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. at this time, the company believes, based on its interpretation of applicable law, that (i) such commodities activities qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption or otherwise conform to the bhc act and (ii) if the federal reserve were to determine otherwise, any required divestment would not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition. after issuing an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in january 2014 on certain aspects of financial holding companies physical commodities activities and merchant banking investments in nonfinancial companies, the federal reserve stated that it is considering a range of possible actions to address the risks associated with these activities and investments, including additional capital, risk management and reporting requirements, and indicated that it will issue a formal notice of rulemaking regarding such matters in 2015. activities restrictions under the volcker rule. in december 2013, u.s. regulators issued final regulations to implement the volcker rule. the volcker rule will, over time, prohibit banking entities, including the company and its affiliates, from engaging in certain prohibited proprietary trading activities, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. the volcker rule will also require banking entities to either restructure or unwind certain investments and relationships with covered funds, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions. banking entities have until july 21, 2015 to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the volcker rule, subject to certain extensions. in addition, the volcker rule requires banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with restrictions under the volcker rule. the volcker rule also requires that certain deductions be made from a bank holding company tier 1 capital for certain investments in covered funds. these deductions do not yet apply and in any event must be reconciled by the applicable regulators with the u.s. basel iii capital requirements discussed below. 8 table of contents the company is taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the volcker rule. given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. capital and liquidity standards. the federal reserve establishes capital requirements for the company and evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. the office of the comptroller of the currency (the occ ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the company u.s. subsidiary banks. the current risk-based and leverage capital framework governing the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks is based on the basel iii capital standards established by the basel committee, as modified in certain respects by the u.s. banking agencies, and is referred to herein as u.s. basel iii. the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks became subject to u.s. basel iii on january 1, 2014. aspects of u.s. basel iii, such as the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements, new capital buffers, and certain deductions from and adjustments to capital, will be phased in over several years. prior to january 1, 2014, the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks calculated regulatory capital ratios using the u.s. banking regulators u.s. basel i-based rules ( u.s. basel i ) as supplemented by rules that implemented the basel committee market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as basel 2.5. u.s. basel iii, which is aimed at increasing the quality and amount of regulatory capital, establishes common equity tier 1 capital as a new tier of capital, increases minimum required risk-based capital ratios, provides for capital buffers above those minimum ratios, narrows the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments, provides for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, modifies methods for calculating risk-weighted assets ( rwas ) the denominator of risk-based capital ratios by, among other things, increasing counterparty credit risk capital requirements and, introduces a supplementary leverage ratio. on a fully phased in basis, the company will be subject to the following minimum capital ratios under u.s. basel iii: common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; total capital ratio of 8.0%; tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; and supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. in addition, on a fully phased in basis by 2019, the company will also be subject to a greater than 2.5% common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer. the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, if any, apply over each of the company common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios. failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the company ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. the federal reserve may require the company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. effective january 1, 2015, the company u.s. subsidiary banks qualify as well-capitalized under the higher capital requirements in u.s. basel iii, by maintaining a total risk-based capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5%, and a tier 1 leverage ratio (tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of at least 5%. in addition, under u.s. basel iii, new items (including certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions) are deducted from the respective tiers of regulatory capital, and certain existing regulatory deductions and adjustments are modified or are no longer applicable. most of these capital deductions are subject to a phase in schedule and will be fully phased in by 2018. unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are reflected in common equity tier 1 capital, subject to a phase in schedule. on february 21, 2014, the federal reserve and the occ approved the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks respective use of the u.s. basel iii advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk 9 table of contents capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the capital floor discussed below (the advanced approach ). as an advanced approach banking organization, the company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk weighted assets ( rwas ) and market risk rwas (the standardized approach ); and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk rwas, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk rwas, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk rwas under u.s. basel iii. to implement a provision of the dodd-frank act, u.s. basel iii subjects advanced approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the company, to a permanent capital floor. in 2014, as a result of the capital floor, an advanced approach banking organization binding risk-based capital ratios were the lower of its ratios computed under the advanced approach and u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5. beginning on january 1, 2015, the company ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the advanced approach or the standardized approach under u.s. basel iii. the u.s. basel iii standardized approach modifies certain u.s. basel i-based methods for calculating rwas and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and exposures. the capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital requirements as well as the capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, the countercyclical capital buffer. the methods for calculating each of the company risk-based capital ratios will change through january 1, 2022 as u.s. basel iii revisions to the numerator and denominator are phased in and as the company calculates rwas using the advanced approach and the standardized approach. these ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the company reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to the company capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile. u.s. basel iii also requires the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks to comply with supplementary leverage ratio requirements, which u.s. banking regulators increased in 2014 above standards established by the basel committee. specifically, beginning in 2018, the company must maintain a tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of greater than 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of greater than 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. in addition, beginning in 2018, to be considered well-capitalized the company u.s. subsidiary banks must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6%. the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio, as revised by the u.s. banking agencies in 2014 to conform with revised leverage standards adopted by the basel committee, is based on the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under generally accepted accounting principles in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) less certain amounts deducted from tier 1 capital at quarter-end and the average month-end balance of certain off-balance sheet exposures associated with derivatives (including centrally cleared derivatives and sold credit protection), repo-style transactions and other off-balance sheet items during the calendar quarter. the enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards will become effective for both the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks on january 1, 2018 with quarterly public disclosure beginning on january 1, 2015. although u.s. basel iii is in effect, the u.s. banking agencies and the basel committee have each proposed, or are considering proposing, revisions to the regulatory capital framework that would modify the regulatory capital standards governing the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks. in december 2014, the federal reserve issued a proposed rule that would impose risk-based capital surcharges on u.s. bank holding companies that are identified as global systemically important banks ( g-sibs ). although the federal reserve proposal is based upon the basel committee international g-sib surcharge framework, the methodologies proposed by the federal reserve generally would result in g-sib surcharges that are higher than the levels required by the basel committee framework and would directly take into account the extent of each u.s. g-sib reliance on short-term wholesale funding. under the proposal, a bank holding company identified as a g-sib would calculate its g-sib surcharge under two methods. the first would consider the g-sib size, interconnectedness, cross- 10 table of contents jurisdictional activity, substitutability, and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the basel committee. the second method would use similar inputs, but would replace substitutability with use of short-term wholesale funding and generally would result in higher surcharges than the basel committee framework. a g-sib surcharge would be the higher of the surcharges determined under the two methods. under the proposal, the g-sib surcharge must be satisfied using common equity tier 1 capital and would function as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. the federal reserve estimates that its proposal could result in g-sib surcharges ranging from 1.0% to 4.5% of a g-sib rwas. the proposal would be phased in between january 1, 2016 and january 1, 2019. the basel committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the basel iii framework that, if adopted by the u.s. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to u.s. basel iii. in particular, the basel committee has finalized a new methodology for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures, the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures ( sa-ccr ); has finalized a revised framework establishing capital requirements for securitizations; and has proposed revisions to various regulatory capital standards. in each case, the impact of these revised standards on the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the u.s. banking agencies. in addition to capital regulations, the u.s. banking agencies and the basel committee have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. the basel committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the liquidity coverage ratio ( lcr ) and the net stable funding ratio ( nsfr ). the lcr generally requires banking organizations to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets that is no less than 100% of their total net cash outflows arising from significant stress over a prospective 30 calendar-day period. in september 2014, u.s. banking regulators issued a final rule to implement the lcr in the u.s. ( u.s. lcr ). the u.s. lcr applies to the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks. the u.s. lcr is more stringent in certain respects than the basel committee version of the lcr as it includes a generally narrower definition of debt and equity securities that qualify as high-quality liquid assets, different methodologies and assumptions for calculating net cash outflows during the 30-day stress period, a maturity mismatch add-on, and a shorter, two-year phase-in period that ends on december 31, 2016. additionally, under the u.s. lcr, a banking organization must submit a liquidity compliance plan to its primary federal banking agency if it fails to maintain the minimum u.s. lcr requirement for three consecutive business days. beginning on january 1, 2015, the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks are required to maintain a minimum u.s. lcr of 80%. this minimum requirement will increase to 90% beginning on january 1, 2016, and will be fully phased in at 100% beginning on january 1, 2017. the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks must calculate their respective lcr on a monthly basis during the period between january 1, 2015 and june 30, 2015, and on each business day starting on july 1, 2015. the nsfr is defined as the ratio of the amount of available stable funding to the amount of required stable funding. the standard objective is to reduce funding risk over a one-year horizon by requiring banking organizations to fund their activities with sufficiently stable sources of funding in order to mitigate the risk of future funding stress. in october 2014, the basel committee finalized revisions to the original december 2010 version of the nsfr. the u.s. banking agencies are expected to issue a proposal to implement the nsfr in the u.s. the company continues to evaluate the nsfr and its potential impact on the company current liquidity and funding requirements. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources basel liquidity framework and regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. capital planning, stress tests and dividends. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the company, which form part of the federal reserve annual comprehensive capital analysis and review ( ccar ) framework. under the federal reserve capital plan rule, the company must submit an annual capital plan to the federal reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the company and the federal reserve. 11 table of contents the capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution (i.e., payments of dividends or stock repurchases), and any similar action that the federal reserve determines could impact the bank holding company consolidated capital. the capital plan must include a discussion of how the bank holding company will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under u.s. basel iii that are phased in over the planning horizon, and above a tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 5%, and serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary u.s. depository institutions under supervisory stress scenarios. the capital plan rule requires that such companies receive no objection from the federal reserve before making a capital distribution. in addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the federal reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. in addition to capital planning requirements, the occ, the federal reserve and the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks, if, in the banking regulator opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. all of these policies and other requirements could affect the company ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require it to provide capital assistance to its u.s. subsidiary banks under circumstances which the company would not otherwise decide to do so. in addition, the federal reserve final rule on stress testing under the dodd-frank act requires the company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. the rule also subjects the company to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the federal reserve. on january 5, 2015, the company submitted the results of its semi-annual stress test to the federal reserve. the company expects that, on march 11, 2015, the federal reserve will provide its response to the company 2015 capital plan (that was submitted to the federal reserve on january 5, 2015). the company received no objection to its 2014 capital plan (see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources capital management in part ii, item 7). the dodd-frank act also requires each of the company u.s. subsidiary banks to conduct an annual stress test. msbna submitted its 2015 annual company-run stress tests to the occ on january 5, 2015. mspbna will submit its 2015 annual company-run stress tests in march 2015. see also capital and liquidity standards above and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. systemic risk regime. the dodd-frank act established a regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions deemed to pose systemic risks. bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the company, became automatically subject to the systemic risk regime in july 2010. a new oversight body, the financial stability oversight council (the fsoc ), can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements for systemically important financial institutions to the federal reserve. the fsoc is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation and, assisted by the new office of financial research within the u.s. department of the treasury ( u.s. treasury ) (established by the dodd-frank act), can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including the company. the systemic risk regime established by the dodd-frank act, provides that, if the federal reserve determines that a systemically important financial institution poses a grave threat to u.s. financial stability, the federal reserve, with the fsoc approval, must limit that institution ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. the federal reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those 12 table of contents regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. in february 2014, the federal reserve issued final rules to implement certain requirements of the dodd-frank act enhanced prudential standards. effective on january 1, 2015, the final rules require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as the company, to conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. in addition, the final rules require institutions to comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements, such as establishment of a risk committee of the board of directors and appointment of a chief risk officer, both of which the company already has. under the final rules, upon a grave threat determination by the fsoc, the federal reserve must require the affected bank holding company to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1 if the fsoc considers it necessary to mitigate the risk. in addition, the federal reserve has proposed rules that would limit the aggregate exposure of each bank holding company with $500 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as the company, and each company designated by the fsoc, to other such institution to 10% of the aggregate capital and surplus of each institution, and limit the aggregate exposure of such institutions to any other unaffiliated counterparty to 25% of the institution aggregate capital and surplus. the proposed rules would also create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level. the federal reserve has stated that it will issue, at a later date, final rules establishing single counterparty credit limits and an early remediation framework. see also capital and liquidity standards herein and resolution and recovery planning below. resolution and recovery planning. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. on august 5, 2014, the federal reserve and the fdic notified the company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans must be addressed in the 2015 resolution plans, which must be submitted on or before july 1, 2015. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to determine that the company resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the company does not cure the plan deficiencies, the company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or the company may be required to divest assets or operations. in addition, msbna must submit to the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes msbna strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of a material financial distress or failure of msbna. on december 17, 2014, the fdic issued guidance regarding the resolution plans for insured depository institutions such as msbna, including requirements with respect to failure scenarios and the development and analysis of a range of realistic resolution strategies. further, the company is required to submit an annual recovery plan to the federal reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to reduce risk, increase liquidity, and conserve capital in times of prolonged stress. certain of the company foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. 13 table of contents under the dodd-frank act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the company and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to resolution under an orderly liquidation authority with the fdic appointed as receiver. a financial company whose largest u.s. subsidiary is a broker or dealer could be resolved under this authority only upon the recommendation of two-thirds of the frb and two-thirds of the sec commissioners, on their own initiative or at the request of the u.s. treasury secretary, and in consultation with the fdic as well as a determination by the u.s. treasury secretary in consultation with the president of the u.s. the orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. if the company were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the fdic would have considerable powers, including (i) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for the company failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (ii) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (iii) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (iv) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. in december 2013, the fdic released its proposed single point of entry strategy for resolution of a systemically important financial institution under the orderly liquidation authority. the strategy involves placing the top-tier u.s. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority. the federal reserve has indicated that it may also introduce a requirement that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt at the holding company level to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms. in november 2014, the financial stability board ( fsb ) issued a policy proposal to establish a minimum international standard for total loss-absorbing capacity ( tlac ) for g-sibs, in addition to regulatory capital requirements, in order to enhance the loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity of such institutions in resolution. the fsb proposed minimum tlac requirement would be set within the range of 16% to 20% of rwas (excluding any applicable regulatory capital buffers, which would continue to be required in addition to the minimum tlac requirement) and at least twice the minimum basel iii tier 1 leverage ratio requirement. regulators may also impose an additional tlac requirement taking into account the g-sib recovery and resolution plans, systemic footprint, business model, risk profile and organizational structure. the minimum tlac requirement would apply to each entity to which resolution tools would be applied within a g-sib. the fsb has proposed eligibility criteria for liabilities to qualify as tlac and a requirement that tlac-eligible liabilities be subordinated to non-tlac-eligible liabilities. in addition, certain material entities that are not resolution entities would be subject to an internal tlac requirement. according to the fsb, the conformance period for the tlac requirement would not begin prior to january 1, 2019. on november 12, 2014, the company and certain of its subsidiaries adhered to the international swaps and derivatives association ( isda ) 2014 resolution stay protocol (the protocol ), which applies to otc derivatives traded under isda master agreements. the protocol overrides certain cross-default rights and certain other default rights related to the entry of an adhering dealer party or its affiliates into certain resolution proceedings. the federal reserve is expected to promulgate regulations implementing portions of the protocol related to u.s. bankruptcy code and certain other matters, which are anticipated to take effect in 2016 or 2017. as with other major financial companies, the combined effects of the orderly liquidation authority and of the fsb tlac proposal and requirements that may be enacted by the federal reserve and the fdic to facilitate the orderly resolution of g-sibs, may make more uncertain recoveries by creditors of the parent holding company in the event of its resolution. 14 table of contents u.s. subsidiary banks. u.s. banking institutions. msbna, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products. certain foreign exchange activities are also conducted by msbna. msbna is an fdic-insured national bank that is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the occ. mspbna offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker-dealer, morgan stanley smith barney llc ( mssb llc ). mspbna also offers certain deposit products, as well as prime brokerage custody services. mspbna is an fdic-insured national bank that is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the occ. effective october 1, 2013, the lending limits applicable to the company u.s. subsidiary banks were revised to take into account credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, securities lending, securities borrowing and repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements with third parties. in september 2014, the occ issued final risk governance guidelines to establish heightened standards for large national banks, and the guidelines apply to both msbna and mspbna. the final guidelines set minimum standards for the design and implementation of a bank risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by a bank board of directors. prompt corrective action. the federal deposit insurance corporation improvement act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take prompt corrective action ( pca ) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. current pca regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as msbna or mspbna and not to their parent holding companies. the federal reserve is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. in addition, as described above, under the systemic risk regime, the company will become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. the dodd-frank act also formalized the requirement that bank holding companies, such the company, serve as a source of strength to their u.s. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress. transactions with affiliates. the company u.s. subsidiary banks are subject to sections 23a and 23b of the federal reserve act, which impose restrictions on covered transactions with any affiliates. covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with an affiliate. these restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that the company u.s. subsidiary banks may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms. effective july 2012, derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between the company u.s. subsidiary banks and their affiliates became subject to these restrictions. these reforms place limits on the company u.s. subsidiary banks ability to engage in derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions with other affiliates of the company. the federal reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more recent restrictions, but has not yet done so. in addition, the volcker rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) the company or any of its affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which the company or any of its affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor or other covered funds organized and offered by the company or any of its affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the volcker rule. fdic regulation. an fdic insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the fdic in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. as commonly controlled fdic-insured depository institutions, each of msbna and mspbna could be responsible for any loss to the fdic from the failure of the other. in 15 table of contents addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of fdic insurance. in 2010, the fdic adopted a restoration plan to replenish the reserve fund over a multi-year period. under the dodd-frank act, some of the restoration must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including msbna, and fdic deposit insurance assessments are calculated using a new methodology that generally favors banks that are mostly funded by deposits. institutional securities and wealth management. broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. the company primary u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, ms&amp;co. and mssb llc, are registered broker-dealers with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the financial industry regulatory authority, inc. ( finra ), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. in addition, mssb llc is a registered investment adviser with the sec. mssb llc relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisors under the investment advisers act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities laws. these laws and regulations generally grant the sec and other supervisory bodies with broad administrative powers to address non-compliance, including the power to restrict or limit mssb llc from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. the dodd-frank act includes various provisions that affect the regulation of broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. for example, the sec is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers. the u.s. department of labor is considering revisions to regulations under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 that could subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and prohibit specified transactions for a wider range of customer interactions. these developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities. margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the federal reserve restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under finra and other self-regulatory organization rules. in many cases, the company broker-dealer subsidiaries margin policies are more stringent than these rules. as registered u.s. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the company are subject to the sec net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. many non-u.s. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital and, in some cases, liquidity requirements that apply to the company non-u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries. these rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. see also financial holding company consolidated supervision and financial holding company capital and liquidity standards above. rules 16 table of contents of finra and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations assets. compliance with regulatory capital requirements may limit the company operations requiring the intensive use of capital. such requirements restrict the company ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the company ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. in addition, such rules may require the company to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules. ms&amp;co. and mssb llc are members of the securities investor protection corporation ( sipc ), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. sipc protects customers eligible securities held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 per customer for all accounts in the same capacity subject to a limitation of $250,000 for claims for uninvested cash balances. to supplement this sipc coverage, each of ms&amp;co. and mssb llc have purchased additional protection for the benefit of their customers in the form of an annual policy issued by certain underwriters and various insurance companies that provides protection for each eligible customer above sipc limits subject to an aggregate firmwide cap of $1 billion with no per client sublimit for securities and a $1.9 million per client limit for the cash portion of any remaining shortfall. as noted under financial holding company systemic risk regime above, the dodd-frank act contains special provisions for the orderly liquidation of covered financial institutions (which could potentially include ms&amp;co. and/or mssb llc). while these provisions are generally intended to provide customers of covered broker-dealers with protections at least as beneficial as they would enjoy in a broker-dealer liquidation proceeding under the securities investor protection act, the details and implementation of such protections are subject to further rulemaking. the sec adopted rules requiring broker-dealers to maintain risk management controls and supervisory procedures with respect to providing access to securities markets, which became fully effective in 2012. in july 2012, the sec adopted a rule requiring the creation of a consolidated audit trail, which, when implemented, will require broker-dealers to report into one consolidated audit trail comprehensive information about every material event in the lifecycle of every quote, order, and execution in all exchange-listed stocks and options, and may ultimately be expanded to other instruments. it is possible that the sec or self-regulatory organizations could propose or adopt additional market structure or other rules for equity and fixed income markets in the future. the provisions, new rules and proposals discussed above could result in increased costs and could otherwise adversely affect trading volumes and other conditions in the markets in which the company operates. regulation of futures activities and certain commodities activities. ms&amp;co., as a futures commission merchant, and mssb llc, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ), the national futures association (the nfa ), a registered futures association, and various commodity futures exchanges. ms&amp;co. and mssb llc and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the nfa in various capacities. rules and regulations of the cftc, nfa and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of a part of a secured amount, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading. under rules finalized by the cftc in november 2013 and effective in january 2014, ms&amp;co. and mssb llc are required to incorporate enhanced customer protections as part of their existing customer protection regime. 17 table of contents ms&amp;co. and mssb llc have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to cftc rules and other guidance. under cftc and nfa rules, commodity trading advisors who manage accounts and commodity pool operators that are registered with the nfa must distribute disclosure documents and maintain specified records relating to their activities, and commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise or operate. violations of the rules of the cftc, the nfa or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. the company commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the u.s. and abroad. intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by u.s. federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. terminal facilities and other assets relating to the company commodities activities also are subject to environmental laws both in the u.s. and abroad. in addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the company or locations to which the company has sent wastes for disposal. see also financial holding company scope of permitted activities above. derivatives regulation. through the dodd-frank act, the company faces a comprehensive u.s. regulatory regime for its activities in certain otc derivatives. the regulation of swaps and security-based swaps (collectively, swaps ) in the u.s. is being, and will continue to be, effected and implemented through the cftc, sec and other agency regulations. the cftc has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect. the sec has not yet adopted the majority of its swaps regulations. subject to certain limited exceptions, the dodd-frank act requires central clearing of certain types of swaps, public and regulatory reporting, and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities. reporting requirements for cftc-regulated swaps are now in effect and certain types of cftc-regulated interest rate and index credit default swaps are subject to mandatory central clearing. certain swaps are also required to be traded on an exchange or execution facility. the dodd-frank act also requires the registration of swap dealers with the cftc and security-based swap dealers with the sec (collectively, swaps entities ). certain of the company subsidiaries have registered with the cftc as swap dealers and in the future additional subsidiaries may register with the cftc. one or more subsidiaries of the company will in the future be required to register with the sec as security-based swap dealers. swaps entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the swaps activities for which they are registered, including new capital requirements, a new margin regime for uncleared swaps and a new segregation regime for collateral of counterparties to uncleared swaps. swaps entities are subject to additional duties, including, among others, internal and external business conduct and documentation standards with respect to their swaps counterparties and recordkeeping. the specific parameters of some of these requirements for swaps have been and continue to be developed through the cftc, sec and bank regulator rulemakings. in particular, in september 2014, the cftc and the u.s. banking regulators re-proposed their rules on margin requirements for uncleared swaps. the full impact on the company of the u.s. agencies margin and capital requirements for swaps entities will not be known with certainty until the requirements are finalized. in december 2014, the cftc re-opened the comment period on re-proposed rules that, if finalized as proposed, would limit positions in 28 agricultural, energy and metals commodities, including swaps, futures and options that are economically equivalent to those commodity contracts. through this re-proposal, the cftc is taking steps to institute position limits that were previously finalized in november 2011 but were vacated by a federal court in september 2012. 18 table of contents although the full impact of u.s. derivatives regulation on the company remains unclear, the company has already, and will continue to, face increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. complying with the swaps rules also has required, and will in the future require, the company to change its swaps businesses, and has required, and will in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. compliance with swap-related regulatory capital requirements may require the company to devote more capital to its swaps business. the european union ( e.u. ) has adopted and implemented certain rules relating to the otc derivatives market and these rules imposed regulatory reporting beginning in february 2014. the e.u. plans to impose central clearing requirements on otc derivatives beginning in 2015 and has started reviewing and adopting determinations of equivalence of the regulatory regimes for central counterparties and trade repositories, and of risk mitigation requirements. in april 2014, e.u. regulators also proposed margin requirements for uncleared swaps. in addition, other non-u.s. jurisdictions are in the process of adopting and implementing legislation emanating from the g-20 commitments that will require, among other things, the central clearing of certain otc derivatives, mandatory reporting of derivatives and bilateral risk mitigation procedures for non-cleared trades. it remains unclear at present how the non-u.s. and u.s. derivatives regulatory regimes will interact. credit risk retention . in october 2014, federal regulatory agencies issued final rules to implement the credit risk retention requirements of section 941 of the dodd-frank act, which generally require securitizers of different types of asset-backed securitizations, including transactions backed by residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, and corporate, credit card and auto loans, to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the assets being securitized. compliance with respect to new securitization transactions backed by residential mortgages is required beginning december 24, 2015 and with respect to new securitization transactions backed by other types of assets beginning december 24, 2016. the company continues to evaluate the final rules and assess their impact on its securitization activities. non-u.s. regulation. the company institutional securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-u.s. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the company maintains an office. non-u.s. policy makers and regulators, including the european commission and european supervisory authorities, continue to propose and adopt numerous market reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to the company european operations. certain morgan stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the u.s. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. for instance, the prudential regulation authority ( pra ), the financial conduct authority ( fca ) and several securities and futures exchanges in the united kingdom ( u.k. ), including the london stock exchange and ice futures europe, regulate the company activities in the u.k.; the bundesanstalt f&uuml;r finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the federal financial supervisory authority) and the deutsche b rse ag regulate its activities in the federal republic of germany; eidgen ssische finanzmarktaufsicht (the financial market supervisory authority) regulates its activities in switzerland; the financial services agency, the bank of japan, the japanese securities dealers association and several japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the tokyo stock exchange, the osaka securities exchange and the tokyo international financial futures exchange, regulate its activities in japan; the hong kong securities and futures commission, the hong kong monetary authority and the hong kong exchanges and clearing limited regulate its operations in hong kong; and the monetary authority of singapore and the singapore exchange limited regulate its business in singapore. regulators in the u.k., e.u. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based capital, leverage capital, liquidity, banking structural reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain morgan stanley subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. for example, the company primary broker-dealer in the u.k., msip, is subject to regulation and supervision by the pra with 19 table of contents respect to prudential matters. as a prudential regulator, the pra seeks to promote the safety and soundness of the firms that it regulates and to minimize the adverse effects that such firms may have on the stability of the u.k. financial system. the pra has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards to pursue these objectives, including approvals of relevant regulatory models, as well as to bring public and non-public disciplinary actions against regulated firms to address noncompliance with such standards. msip is also regulated and supervised by the fca with respect to business conduct matters. on january 1, 2014, msip became subject to the capital requirements regulation and capital requirements directive (collectively, crd iv ), which implements the basel iii and other regulatory requirements for e.u. credit institutions and investment firms, including msip. european market infrastructure regulation introduces new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives. in addition, the e.u. bank recovery and resolution directive ( brrd ) has established a recovery and resolution framework for e.u. credit institutions and investment firms, including msip. e.u. member states were required to apply provisions implementing the brrd as of january 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions. a recast markets in financial instruments directive ( mifid ii ) and a new markets in financial instruments regulation ( mifir ) have also been adopted and will introduce various trading and market infrastructure reforms in the e.u. mifid ii and mifir are to apply from january 3, 2017, subject to certain exemptions. investment management. many of the subsidiaries engaged in the company asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the sec. many aspects of the company asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. these laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. in order to facilitate its asset management business, the company owns a registered u.s. broker-dealer, morgan stanley distribution, inc., which acts as distributor to the morgan stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by the company investment management business segment. a number of legal entities within the company investment management business are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to cftc rules and other guidance. see also institutional securities and wealth management broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation and institutional securities and wealth management regulation of futures activities and certain commodities activities above. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank act, the company asset management activities will be subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds), restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, covered funds, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to certain limited exemptions, and certain rules and regulations regarding trading activities, including trading in derivatives markets. many of these new requirements may increase the expenses associated with the company asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the company is able to generate for its asset management clients. the company is continuing its review of its asset management activities that may be affected by the volcker rule and is taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to help ensure and monitor compliance with the volcker rule. the company had already taken certain steps to comply with the volcker rule prior to the issuance of the final regulations, including, for example, launching new funds that are designed to comply with the volcker rule. given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain, and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. see also financial holding company activities restrictions under the volcker rule. 20 table of contents the company investment management business is also regulated outside the u.s. for example, the fca is the primary regulator of the company business in the u.k.; the financial services agency regulates the company business in japan; the hong kong securities and futures commission regulates the company business in hong kong; and the monetary authority of singapore regulates the company business in singapore. anti-money laundering and economic sanctions. the company anti-money laundering ( aml ) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. in the u.s., for example, the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement aml programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. outside the u.s., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement aml programs. the company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable aml laws and regulations. the company has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control ( ofac ), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to u.s. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and as applicable similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the united nations security council and the e.u. council. anti-corruption. the company is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, in the jurisdictions in which it operates. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. the company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations. protection of client information. many aspects of the company businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the gramm-leach-bliley act and the fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 in the u.s., the e.u. data protection directive and various laws in asia, including the japanese personal information (protection) law, the hong kong personal data (protection) ordinance and the australian privacy act. the company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions. research. both u.s. and non-u.s. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions. in november 2014, finra proposed to amend its equity research rules and adopt new rules for debt research. new and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with u.s. federal and state regulators (to which the company is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures. compensation practices and other regulation. the company compensation practices are subject to oversight by the federal reserve. in particular, the company is subject to the federal reserve guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations safety 21 table of contents and soundness. the scope and content of the federal reserve policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and the company expects that these policies will evolve over a number of years. the company is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the dodd-frank act, which may impact its compensation practices. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, among other things, federal regulators, including the federal reserve, must prescribe regulations to require covered financial institutions, including the company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the covered financial institution. in april 2011, seven federal agencies, including the federal reserve, jointly proposed an interagency rule implementing this requirement. further, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec must direct listing exchanges to require companies to implement policies relating to disclosure of incentive-based compensation that is based on publicly reported financial information and the clawback of such compensation from current or former executive officers following certain accounting restatements. in addition to the guidelines issued by the federal reserve and referenced above, the company compensation practices may also be impacted by other regulations, including those relating to the e.u. crd iv, the alternative investment fund managers directive, the fifth undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities directive, the markets in financial instruments directive and the future second markets in financial instruments directive and regulation. the company compensation practices with respect to certain employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the company e.u. operations are subject to the crd iv and related e.u. and local member state regulations, including, amongst others, a cap on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration and other variable remuneration restrictions. in the u.k., the remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the remuneration codes in the pra and fca handbooks, including since january 1, 2014, provisions that implement the crd iv as well as additional u.k. requirements. for a discussion of certain risks relating to the company regulatory environment, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. executive officers of morgan stanley. the executive officers of morgan stanley and their ages and titles as of march 2, 2015 are set forth below. business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with sec rules. gregory j. fleming (52) . executive vice president (since february 2010), president of investment management (since february 2010) and president of wealth management of morgan stanley (since january 2011). president of research of morgan stanley (february 2010 to january 2011). senior research scholar at yale law school and distinguished visiting fellow of the center for the study of corporate law at yale law school (january 2009 to december 2009). president of merrill lynch &amp; co., inc. ( merrill lynch ) (february 2008 to january 2009). co-president of merrill lynch (may 2007 to february 2008). executive vice president and co-president of the global markets and investment banking group of merrill lynch (august 2003 to may 2007). james p. gorman (56) . chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of morgan stanley (since january 2012). president and chief executive officer (january 2010 through december 2011) and member of the board of directors (since january 2010). co-president (december 2007 to december 2009) and co-head of strategic planning (october 2007 to december 2009). president and chief operating officer of wealth management (february 2006 to april 2008). eric f. grossman (48) . executive vice president and chief legal officer of morgan stanley (since january 2012). global head of legal (september 2010 to january 2012). global head of litigation (january 2006 to 22 table of contents september 2010) and general counsel of the americas (may 2009 to september 2010). general counsel of wealth management (november 2008 to september 2010). partner at the law firm of davis polk &amp; wardwell llp (june 2001 to december 2005). keishi hotsuki (52) . executive vice president (since may 2014) and chief risk officer of morgan stanley (since may 2011). interim chief risk officer (january 2011 to may 2011) and head of market risk department (march 2008 to april 2014). director of mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities co., ltd. (since may 2010). global head of market risk management at merrill lynch (june 2005 to september 2007). colm kelleher (57) . executive vice president (since october 2007), president of institutional securities (since january 2013) and of head of international (since january 2011) of morgan stanley. co-president of institutional securities (january 2010 to december 2012). chief financial officer and co-head of strategic planning (october 2007 to december 2009). head of global capital markets (february 2006 to october 2007). co-head of fixed income europe (may 2004 to february 2006). ruth porat (57) . executive vice president and chief financial officer of morgan stanley (since january 2010). vice chairman of investment banking (september 2003 to december 2009). global head of financial institutions group (september 2006 to december 2009) and chairman of the financial sponsors group (july 2004 to september 2006) within investment banking. james a. rosenthal (61) . executive vice president and chief operating officer of morgan stanley (since january 2011). head of corporate strategy (january 2010 to may 2011). chief operating officer of wealth management (january 2010 to august 2011). head of firmwide technology and operations of morgan stanley (march 2008 to january 2010). chief financial officer of tishman speyer (may 2006 to march 2008). 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in part ii, item 7a. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, currency, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate and energy markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary), and legal and regulatory actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc. ( mufg )); our reputation and the general perception of the financial services industry; inflation, natural disasters, pandemics and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of our risk management policies; and technological changes and risks and cybersecurity risks (including cyber attacks and business continuity risks); or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. we may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments 24 table of contents in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in the last several years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through our institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that adverse difficult economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities 25 table of contents through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact with on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. the technology used is increasingly complex and relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. as a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, systems or processes or due to fraud. nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo as well as mumbai, budapest, glasgow and baltimore. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. 26 table of contents although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems, monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. the increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices as well as cloud computing may also heighten these and other operational risks. like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. these threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. there can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. if one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur without detection for an extended period of time. in addition, we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack will be inherently unpredictable and it may take time before any investigation is complete and full and reliable information is available. during such time we may not know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it and certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. while many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. in addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. 27 table of contents factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the remaining sovereign debt issues in europe or fiscal matters in the u.s., could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in part ii, item 7. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with our institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody investor services and standard &amp; poor rating services. at december 31, 2014, the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers were $1,856 million and an incremental $2,984 million, respectively. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our u.s. subsidiary banks. 28 table of contents our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economies. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. in particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. significant turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. this risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of financial market reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated and conducted. in particular, as a result of these reforms, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, new activities limitations, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, new resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. many of the changes required by these reforms could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, regulatory requirements that are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and, if adopted, may adversely affect us. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company is and will continue to be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. 29 table of contents for example, the volcker rule provisions of the dodd-frank act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. we are continuing our review of activities that may be affected by the volcker rule and are taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the volcker rule. given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. we may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. we originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. between 2004 and december 31, 2014, we sponsored residential mortgage-backed securities transactions containing approximately $148.0 billion of residential loans, primarily in the u.s. of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47.0 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21.0 billion of loans. at december 31, 2014, the current unpaid principal balance ( upb ) for all the u.s. residential loans subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $15.5 billion and the cumulative losses associated with such loans were approximately $14.1 billion. we did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $79.9 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. we have not made representations and warranties on loans deposited into any u.s. rmbs transactions since 2007. 30 table of contents we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ). between 2004 and december 31, 2014, we originated approximately $56.0 billion and $7.0 billion of u.s. and non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into cmbs sponsored by us. at december 31, 2014, the current upb for all u.s. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $33.7 billion. at december 31, 2014, the current upb when known for all non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $1.8 billion and the upb at the time of sale when the current upb is not known was $0.4 billion. we currently have several legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. if there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses substantially in excess of our reserves. in addition, our reserves are based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. if those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. we continue to engage in discussions with the federal reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. for 31 table of contents example, the u.s. and the e.u. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. subsidiary banks and their affiliates. risk management. our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our risk management strategies, including our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. as our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt with those changes. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management judgment. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. for example, market conditions during the financial crisis involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. for example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a. 32 table of contents competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with 33 table of contents local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition, divestiture and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with mufg), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. for example, the ownership arrangements relating to the company joint venture in japan with mufg of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. mufg and the company have integrated their respective japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, mumss and msms. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters japanese securities joint venture in part ii, item 7. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. 34 table of contents for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 123 our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, currency, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate and energy markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the dodd-frank act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary), and legal and regulatory actions in the u.s. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc. ( mufg )); our reputation and the general perception of the financial services industry; inflation, natural disasters, pandemics and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of our risk management policies; and technological changes and risks and cybersecurity risks (including cyber attacks and business continuity risks); or a combination of these or other factors. in addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. these factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. we may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments 24 table of contents in future periods. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in the last several years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through our institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that adverse difficult economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities 25 table of contents through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact with on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. the technology used is increasingly complex and relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. as a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, systems or processes or due to fraud. nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo as well as mumbai, budapest, glasgow and baltimore. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. 26 table of contents although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems, monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. the increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices as well as cloud computing may also heighten these and other operational risks. like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. these threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. there can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. if one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur without detection for an extended period of time. in addition, we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack will be inherently unpredictable and it may take time before any investigation is complete and full and reliable information is available. during such time we may not know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it and certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. while many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. in addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. 27 table of contents factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the remaining sovereign debt issues in europe or fiscal matters in the u.s., could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in part ii, item 7. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with our institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody investor services and standard &amp; poor rating services. at december 31, 2014, the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers were $1,856 million and an incremental $2,984 million, respectively. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our u.s. subsidiary banks. 28 table of contents our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economies. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. in particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. significant turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. this risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of financial market reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated and conducted. in particular, as a result of these reforms, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, new activities limitations, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, new resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. many of the changes required by these reforms could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, regulatory requirements that are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and, if adopted, may adversely affect us. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company is and will continue to be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. 29 table of contents for example, the volcker rule provisions of the dodd-frank act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. we are continuing our review of activities that may be affected by the volcker rule and are taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the volcker rule. given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. we may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. we originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. between 2004 and december 31, 2014, we sponsored residential mortgage-backed securities transactions containing approximately $148.0 billion of residential loans, primarily in the u.s. of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47.0 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21.0 billion of loans. at december 31, 2014, the current unpaid principal balance ( upb ) for all the u.s. residential loans subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $15.5 billion and the cumulative losses associated with such loans were approximately $14.1 billion. we did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $79.9 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. we have not made representations and warranties on loans deposited into any u.s. rmbs transactions since 2007. 30 table of contents we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ). between 2004 and december 31, 2014, we originated approximately $56.0 billion and $7.0 billion of u.s. and non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into cmbs sponsored by us. at december 31, 2014, the current upb for all u.s. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $33.7 billion. at december 31, 2014, the current upb when known for all non-u.s. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $1.8 billion and the upb at the time of sale when the current upb is not known was $0.4 billion. we currently have several legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. if there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses substantially in excess of our reserves. in addition, our reserves are based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. if those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations. although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. we continue to engage in discussions with the federal reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. for 31 table of contents example, the u.s. and the e.u. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. subsidiary banks and their affiliates. risk management. our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our risk management strategies, including our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. as our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt with those changes. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management judgment. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. for example, market conditions during the financial crisis involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. for example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a. 32 table of contents competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with 33 table of contents local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition, divestiture and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with mufg), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. for example, the ownership arrangements relating to the company joint venture in japan with mufg of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. mufg and the company have integrated their respective japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, mumss and msms. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other matters japanese securities joint venture in part ii, item 7. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. 34 table of contents for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. the company, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the sec regarding its periodic or current reports under the exchange act. there are no comments that remain unresolved that the company received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that the company believes are material. 35 table of contents item 2. properties. the company has offices, operations and data centers located around the world. the company properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. the company believes the facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. the company principal offices consist of the following properties: location owned/ leased lease expiration approximate square footage as of december 31, 2014(a) u.s. locations 1585 broadway new york, new york (global headquarters and institutional securities headquarters) owned n/a 1,332,700 square feet 2000 westchester avenue purchase, new york (wealth management headquarters) owned n/a 597,400 square feet 522 fifth avenue new york, new york (investment management headquarters) owned n/a 571,800 square feet new york, new york (several locations) leased 2015 2029 2,346,000 square feet brooklyn, new york (several locations) leased 2016 2023 344,100 square feet 655 howard avenue somerset, new jersey (data center) owned n/a 369,600 square feet international locations 20 bank street london (london headquarters) leased 2038 546,500 square feet 25 cabot square canary wharf london leased 2020 454,600 square feet 1 austin road west kowloon (hong kong headquarters) leased 2019 499,900 square feet otemachi financial city south tower otemachi, chiyoda-ku (tokyo headquarters) leased 2023 246,700 square feet (a) the indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space occupied by morgan stanley branch offices. 36 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings. in addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, the company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. the company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the company business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. the company expects future litigation accruals in general to continue to be elevated and the changes in accruals from period to period may fluctuate significantly, given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the company. in many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible, or to estimate the amount of any loss. the company cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings or investigations will be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation. subject to the foregoing, the company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the company, although the outcome of such proceedings or investigations could be material to the company operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the company revenues or income for such period. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, the company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief and, while the company has identified below certain proceedings that the company believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material. residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters. regulatory and governmental matters. the company has received subpoenas and requests for information from certain federal and state regulatory and governmental entities, including among others various members of the rmbs working group of the financial fraud enforcement task force, such as the united states department of justice, civil division and several state attorney general offices, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related 37 table of contents matters such as residential mortgage backed securities ( rmbs ), collateralized debt obligations ( cdos ), structured investment vehicles ( sivs ) and credit default swaps backed by or referencing mortgage pass-through certificates. these matters, some of which are in advanced stages, include, but are not limited to, investigations related to the company due diligence on the loans that it purchased for securitization, the company communications with ratings agencies, the company disclosures to investors, and the company handling of servicing and foreclosure related issues. in may 2014, the california attorney general office ( caag ), which is one of the members of the rmbs working group, indicated that it has made certain preliminary conclusions that the company made knowing and material misrepresentations regarding rmbs and that it knowingly caused material misrepresentations to be made regarding the cheyne siv, which issued securities marketed to the california public employees retirement system. the caag has further indicated that it believes the company conduct violated california law and that it may seek treble damages, penalties and injunctive relief. the company does not agree with these conclusions and has presented defenses to them to the caag. on september 16, 2014, the virginia attorney general office filed a civil lawsuit, styled commonwealth of virginia ex rel. integra rec llc v. barclays capital inc., et al. , against the company and several other defendants in the circuit court of the city of richmond related to rmbs. the lawsuit alleges that the company and the other defendants knowingly made misrepresentations and omissions related to the loans backing rmbs purchased by the virginia retirement system ( vrs ). the complaint alleges vrs suffered total losses of approximately $384 million on these securities, but does not specify the amount of alleged losses attributable to rmbs sponsored or underwritten by the company. the complaint asserts claims under the virginia fraud against taxpayers act, as well as common law claims of actual and constructive fraud, and seeks, among other things, treble damages and civil penalties. on january 20, 2015, the defendants filed a demurrer to the complaint and a plea in bar seeking dismissal of the complaint. in october 2014, the illinois attorney general office ( il ag ) sent a letter to the company alleging that the company knowingly made misrepresentations related to rmbs purchased by certain pension funds affiliated with the state of illinois and demanding that the company pay the il ag approximately $88 million. the company does not agree with these allegations and has presented defenses to them to the il ag. on january 13, 2015, the new york attorney general office ( nyag ), which is also a member of the rmbs working group, indicated that it intends to file a lawsuit related to approximately 30 subprime securitizations sponsored by the company. nyag indicated that the lawsuit would allege that the company misrepresented or omitted material information related to the due diligence, underwriting and valuation of the loans in the securitizations and the properties securing them and indicated that its lawsuit would be brought under the martin act. the company does not agree with nyag allegations and has presented defenses to them to nyag. on february 25, 2015, the company reached an agreement in principle with the united states department of justice, civil division and the united states attorney office for the northern district of california, civil division (collectively, the civil division ) to pay $2.6 billion to resolve certain claims that the civil division indicated it intended to bring against the company. while the company and the civil division have reached an agreement in principle to resolve this matter, there can be no assurance that the company and the civil division will agree on the final documentation of the settlement. class actions on february 12, 2008, a purported class action, styled joel stratte-mcclure, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. , was filed in the united states district court for the southern district of new york ( sdny ) against the company and certain present and former executives asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of persons and entities who purchased shares of the company common stock during the period june 20, 2007 to december 19, 2007 and who suffered damages as a result of such purchases. the allegations in the amended complaint related in 38 table of contents large part to the company subprime and other mortgage related losses, and also included allegations regarding the company disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. on august 8, 2011, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, which was granted on january 18, 2013. on may 29, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an appeal in the united states court of appeals for the second circuit (the second circuit ). on january 12, 2015, the second circuit affirmed the dismissal of the action. on october 25, 2010, the company, certain affiliates and pinnacle performance limited, a special purpose vehicle ( spv ), were named as defendants in a purported class action related to securities issued by the spv in singapore, commonly referred to as pinnacle notes. the case is styled ge dandong, et al. v. pinnacle performance ltd., et al. and is pending in the sdny. the court granted class certification on october 17, 2013. the second amended complaint, filed on january 31, 2014, alleges that the defendants engaged in a fraudulent scheme to defraud investors by structuring the pinnacle notes to fail and benefited subsequently from the securities failure, that the securities offering materials contained material misstatements or omissions regarding the securities underlying assets and alleged conflicts of interest between the defendants and the investors, and asserts common law claims of fraud, aiding and abetting fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraudulent inducement, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. plaintiffs seek damages of approximately $138.7 million, rescission, punitive damages, and interest. on july 17, 2014, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation, which received preliminary court approval december 2, 2014. the final approval hearing is scheduled for july 2, 2015. other litigation. on december 23, 2009, the federal home loan bank of seattle filed a complaint against the company and another defendant in the superior court of the state of washington, styled federal home loan bank of seattle v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. the amended complaint, filed on september 28, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $233 million. the complaint raises claims under the washington state securities act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on october 18, 2010, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the action. by orders dated june 23, 2011 and july 18, 2011, the court denied defendants omnibus motion to dismiss plaintiff amended complaint and on august 15, 2011, the court denied the company individual motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on march 7, 2013, the court granted defendants motion to strike plaintiff demand for a jury trial. on march 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of san francisco filed two complaints against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california. these actions are styled federal home loan bank of san francisco v. credit suisse securities (usa) llc, et al. , and federal home loan bank of san francisco v. deutsche bank securities inc. et al. , respectively. amended complaints, filed on june 10, 2010, allege that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company in these cases was approximately $704 million and $276 million, respectively. the complaints raise claims under both the federal securities laws and california law and seek, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on august 11, 2011, plaintiff federal securities law claims were dismissed with prejudice. on february 9, 2012, defendants demurrers with respect to all other claims were overruled. on december 20, 2013, plaintiff negligent misrepresentation claims were dismissed with prejudice. on january 26, 2015, the plaintiff requested dismissal with prejudice of all remaining claims against the company in the federal home loan bank of san francisco v. credit suisse securities (usa) llc, et al . action. on july 15, 2010, the charles schwab corp. filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california, styled the charles schwab corp. v. bnp paribas securities corp., et al . the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to one of plaintiff subsidiaries of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts 39 table of contents containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff subsidiary by the company was approximately $180 million. the complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and california law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. plaintiff filed an amended complaint on august 2, 2010. on september 22, 2011, defendants filed demurrers to the amended complaint. on october 13, 2011, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claims brought under the securities act. on january 27, 2012, the court substantially overruled defendants demurrers. on march 5, 2012, the plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. on april 10, 2012, the company filed a demurrer to certain causes of action in the second amended complaint, which the court overruled on july 24, 2012. on november 24, 2014, plaintiff negligent misrepresentation claims were dismissed with prejudice. an initial trial of certain of plaintiff claims is scheduled to begin in august 2015. on july 15, 2010, china development industrial bank ( cdib ) filed a complaint against the company, styled china development industrial bank v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated et al ., which is pending in the supreme court of the state of new york, new york county ( supreme court of ny ). the complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the stack 2006-1 cdo. the complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the company misrepresented the risks of the stack 2006-1 cdo to cdib, and that the company knew that the assets backing the cdo were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with cdib. the complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that cdib alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of cdib obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs. on february 28, 2011, the court denied the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on october 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of chicago filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the circuit court of the state of illinois, styled federal home loan bank of chicago v. bank of america funding corporation et al . a corrected amended complaint was filed on april 8, 2011. the corrected amended complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans and asserts claims under illinois law. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company at issue in the action was approximately $203 million. the complaint seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the corrected amended complaint on may 27, 2011, which was denied on september 19, 2012. on december 13, 2013, the court entered an order dismissing all claims related to one of the securitizations at issue. after that dismissal, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $78 million. on april 20, 2011, the federal home loan bank of boston filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the commonwealth of massachusetts styled federal home loan bank of boston v. ally financial, inc. f/k/a gmac llc et al. an amended complaint was filed on june 29, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $385 million. the amended complaint raises claims under the massachusetts uniform securities act, the massachusetts consumer protection act and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on may 26, 2011, defendants removed the case to the united states district court for the district of massachusetts. on october 11, 2012, defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint, which were granted in part and denied in part on september 30, 2013. on november 25, 2013 and july 16, 2014, respectively, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claims against the company with respect to two of the securitizations at issue. after these voluntary dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $358 million. 40 table of contents on july 18, 2011, the western and southern life insurance company and certain affiliated companies filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the court of common pleas in ohio, styled western and southern life insurance company, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., et al . an amended complaint was filed on april 2, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of the certificates allegedly sold to plaintiffs by the company was approximately $153 million. the amended complaint raises claims under the ohio securities act, federal securities laws, and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on may 21, 2012, the company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which was denied on august 3, 2012. the company filed a motion for summary judgment on january 20, 2015. trial is currently scheduled to begin in july 2015. on november 4, 2011, the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ), as receiver for franklin bank s.s.b, filed two complaints against the company in the district court of the state of texas. each was styled federal deposit insurance corporation as receiver for franklin bank, s.s.b v. morgan stanley &amp; company llc f/k/a morgan stanley &amp; co. inc. and alleged that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly underwritten and sold to plaintiff by the company in these cases was approximately $67 million and $35 million, respectively. the complaints each raised claims under both federal securities law and the texas securities act and each seeks, among other things, compensatory damages associated with plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on june 7, 2012, the two cases were consolidated. the company filed a motion for summary judgment and special exceptions, which was denied in substantial part on april 26, 2013. the fdic filed a second amended consolidated complaint on may 3, 2013. the company filed a motion for leave to file an interlocutory appeal as to the court order denying its motion for summary judgment and special exceptions, which was denied on august 1, 2013. on october 7, 2014, the court denied the company motion for reconsideration of the court order denying its motion for summary judgment and special exceptions and granted its motion for reconsideration of the court order denying leave to file an interlocutory appeal. on november 21, 2014, the company filed a motion for summary judgment, which was denied on february 10, 2015. the texas fourteenth court of appeals denied morgan stanley petition for interlocutory appeal on november 25, 2014. trial is currently scheduled to begin in july 2015. on january 20, 2012, sealink funding limited filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled sealink funding limited v. morgan stanley, et al. plaintiff purports to be the assignee of claims of certain special purpose vehicles ( spvs ) formerly sponsored by sachsenlb europe. a second amended complaint, filed on march 20, 2013, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to the spvs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold by the company was approximately $507 million. the second amended complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages as well as punitive damages associated with plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on may 3, 2013, the company moved to dismiss the second amended complaint, and on april 18, 2014, the court granted the company motion. on may 1, 2014, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of that decision. on january 25, 2012, dexia sa/nv and certain of its affiliated entities filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled dexia sa/nv et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. an amended complaint was filed on may 24, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold to plaintiffs by the company was approximately $626 million. the amended complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and/or rescissionary damages as well as punitive damages associated with plaintiffs purchases of such certificates. on 41 table of contents october 16, 2013, the court granted the defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on november 18, 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal. plaintiffs also filed a motion to renew their opposition to defendants motion to dismiss, which the court denied on june 23, 2014. on july 16, 2014, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of that decision, which has been consolidated with the appeal of the motion to dismiss. on april 25, 2012, the prudential insurance company of america and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the superior court of the state of new jersey, styled the prudential insurance company of america, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. on october 16, 2012, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. the amended complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company is approximately $1.073 billion. the amended complaint raises claims under the new jersey uniform securities law, as well as common law claims of negligent misrepresentation, fraud, fraudulent inducement, equitable fraud, aiding and abetting fraud, and violations of the new jersey rico statute, and includes a claim for treble damages. on march 15, 2013, the court denied the defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on january 2, 2015, the court denied defendants renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on august 7, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-4sl (together, the trust ) against the company. the matter is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on august 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss. on august 8, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-14sl, morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2007-4sl against the company. the complaint is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc . and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on october 9, 2012, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 26, 2013, and october 7, 2013, the company and the plaintiffs, respectively, filed notices of appeal with respect to the court august 16, 2013 decision. on august 10, 2012, the fdic, as receiver for colonial bank, filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the circuit court of montgomery, alabama styled federal deposit insurance corporation as receiver for colonial bank v. citigroup mortgage loan trust inc. et al. the plaintiff filed an amended complaint on september 13, 2013. the complaint alleges that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to colonial bank of a mortgage pass-through certificate backed by a securitization trust containing residential loans. the complaint asserts claims under federal securities law and the alabama securities act, and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages. the total amount of the certificate allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to colonial bank was approximately $65 million. on november 12, 2013, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which was denied on april 10, 2014. 42 table of contents on september 28, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx against the company styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., pending in the supreme court of ny. u.s. bank filed an amended complaint on january 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on september 30, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on november 7, 2014, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal from the court september 30, 2014 decision. on december 14, 2012, royal park investments sa/nv filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. merrill lynch et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans totaling approximately $628 million. on october 24, 2013, plaintiff filed a new complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. morgan stanley et al. the new complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $597 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, negligent misrepresentation, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on february 3, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 10, 2013, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-10sl against the company. the complaint is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the company to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, and interest. on august 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 31, 2013, hsh nordbank ag and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled hsh nordbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $524 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on april 12, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on february 14, 2013, bank hapoalim b.m. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled bank hapoalim b.m. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $141 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, 43 table of contents compensatory and punitive damages. on april 22, 2014, the court denied the defendants motion to dismiss in substantial part. on september 18, 2014, the company filed a notice of appeal from the ruling denying defendants motion to dismiss. on march 7, 2013, the federal housing finance agency filed a summons with notice on behalf of the trustee of the saxon asset securities trust, series 2007-1, against the company and an affiliate. the matter is styled federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the saxon asset securities trust, series 2007-1 v. saxon funding management llc and morgan stanley and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the notice asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $593 million, breached various representations and warranties. the notice seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, indemnity, and interest. on may 3, 2013, plaintiffs in deutsche zentral-genossenschaftsbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $694 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on june 10, 2014, the court denied the defendants motion to dismiss the case. on august 4, 2014, claims regarding two certificates were dismissed by stipulation. after these dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $644 million. on may 17, 2013, plaintiff in ikb international s.a. in liquidation, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $132 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on october 30, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss. all claims regarding four certificates were dismissed. after these dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $116 million. on december 1, 2014, the company filed a notice of appeal from the court october 30, 2014 decision. on july 2, 2013, the trustee, deutsche bank became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 (msac 2007-nc1) v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, as trustee for the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 v. morgan stanley abs capital i, inc. on february 3, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.25 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission and interest. on march 12, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. july 8, 2013, plaintiff filed a complaint in morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-2ax, by u.s. bank national association, solely in its capacity as trustee v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as 44 table of contents successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., and greenpoint mortgage funding, inc. the complaint, filed in the supreme court of ny, asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages and interest. on august 22, 2013, the company a filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on november 24, 2014. on august 5, 2013, landesbank baden-w&uuml;rttemberg and two affiliates filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled landesbank baden-w&uuml;rttemberg et al. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $50 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for, among other things, common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission based upon mutual mistake, and seeks, among other things, rescission, compensatory damages, and punitive damages. on october 4, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 16, 2013, the plaintiff in national credit union administration board v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated, et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the united states district court for the district of kansas. the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts in the sale to the plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates issued by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $567 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for violations of section 11 and section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, violations of the california corporate securities law of 1968, and violations of the kansas blue sky law and seeks, among other things, rescissionary and compensatory damages. on december 27, 2013, the court granted the defendants motion to dismiss in substantial part. the surviving claims relate to one certificate purchased by the plaintiff for approximately $17 million. on november 17, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint. on december 15, 2014, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint in part. on august 26, 2013, a complaint was filed against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled phoenix light sf limited et al v. morgan stanley et al . the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs, or their assignors, of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold to plaintiffs or their assignors by the company was approximately $344 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation and rescission based on mutual mistake and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages, punitive damages or alternatively rescission or rescissionary damages associated with the purchase of such certificates. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on december 13, 2013. on june 17, 2014, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. by stipulation dated july 18, 2014, the parties agreed that the company previously filed motion to dismiss would be deemed to be directed at the amended complaint. on september 23, 2013, the plaintiff in national credit union administration board v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the sdny. the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates issued by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $417 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for violations of section 11 and section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, violations of the texas securities act, and violations of the illinois securities law of 1953 and seeks, among other things, rescissionary and compensatory 45 table of contents damages. on january 22, 2014, the court granted defendants motion to dismiss with respect to claims arising under the securities act of 1933 and denied defendants motion to dismiss with respect to claims arising under texas securities act and the illinois securities law of 1953. on april 28, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the plaintiff motion to strike certain of the defendants affirmative defenses. on july 11, 2014, the defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court order on the motion to dismiss the complaint or, in the alternative, for certification of interlocutory appeal and a stay of all proceedings, which the court denied on september 30, 2014. on november 17, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint. on november 6, 2013, deutsche bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 (msac 2007-nc3) v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, solely in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.3 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission, interest and costs. on december 16, 2013, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on december 24, 2013, commerzbank ag london branch filed a summons with notice against the company and others in the supreme court of ny, styled commerzbank ag london branch v. ubs ag et al. plaintiff purports to be the assignee of claims of certain other entities. the complaint, which was filed on may 20, 2014, alleges that the company made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff assignors of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs assignors was approximately $185 million. the complaint asserts causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, and aiding and abetting common law fraud and fraudulent concealment and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. the company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on december 5, 2014. on december 30, 2013, wilmington trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-12, filed a complaint against the company. the matter is styled wilmington trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc et al. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, interest and costs. on february 28, 2014, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 15, 2014, the fdic, as receiver for united western bank filed a complaint against the company and others in the district court of the state of colorado, styled federal deposit insurance corporation, as receiver for united western bank v. banc of america funding corp., et al. the complaint alleges that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to united western bank of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold to united western bank by the company was approximately $75 million. the complaint raises claims under both federal securities law and the colorado securities act and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages associated with plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on february 14, 2014, the defendants filed a notice removing the litigation to the united states district court for the district of colorado. on march 14, 2014, the plaintiff filed a motion to remand the action. on april 30, 2014, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. 46 table of contents on april 28, 2014, deutsche bank national trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley structured trust i 2007-1, filed a complaint against the company. the matter is styled deutsche bank national trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc and is pending in the sdny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. on july 21, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 19, 2014, financial guaranty insurance company ( fgic ) filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of the state of new york, new york county ( supreme court of new york ) styled financial guaranty insurance company v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. et al. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the net interest margin securities ( nims ) in the trust breached various representations and warranties. fgic issued a financial guaranty policy with respect to certain notes that had an original balance of approximately $475 million. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the nim breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, reimbursement of certain payments made pursuant to the transaction documents, attorneys fees and interest. on november 24, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 19, 2014, deutsche bank national trust company, in its capacity as trustee of morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc4, filed a summons with notice against the company in the supreme court of new york styled deutsche bank national trust company, solely in its capacity as trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc4 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc ., and morgan stanley abs capital i inc . the notice asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the trustee filed its complaint on january 23, 2015, alleging breaches of representations and warranties, the repurchase obligation, and the duty to notify, and seeking, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents; compensatory, consequential, rescissory, equitable and/or punitive damages; attorneys fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. on september 23, 2014, fgic filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of new york styled financial guaranty insurance company v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. et al. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties and defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to induce fgic to issue a financial guaranty policy on certain classes of certificates that had an original balance of approximately $876 million. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential and punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. on november 24, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. other matters. on a case-by-case basis the company has entered into agreements to toll the statute of limitations applicable to potential civil claims related to rmbs, cdos and other mortgage-related products and services when the company has concluded that it is in its interest to do so. on october 18, 2011, the company received a letter from gibbs &amp; bruns llp (the law firm ), which is purportedly representing a group of investment advisers and holders of mortgage pass-through certificates issued by rmbs trusts that were sponsored or underwritten by the company. the letter asserted that the law firm clients collectively hold 25% or more of the voting rights in 17 rmbs trusts sponsored or underwritten by the company and that these trusts have an aggregate outstanding balance exceeding $6 billion. the letter alleged generally that large numbers of mortgages in these trusts were sold or deposited into the trusts based on false and/or fraudulent representations and warranties by the mortgage originators, sellers and/or depositors. the letter also alleged generally that there is evidence suggesting that the company has failed prudently to service 47 table of contents mortgage loans in these trusts. on january 31, 2012, the law firm announced that its clients hold over 25% of the voting rights in 69 rmbs trusts securing over $25 billion of rmbs sponsored or underwritten by the company, and that its clients had issued instructions to the trustees of these trusts to open investigations into allegedly ineligible mortgages held by these trusts. the law firm press release also indicated that the law firm clients anticipate that they may provide additional instructions to the trustees, as needed, to further the investigations. on september 19, 2012, the company received two purported notices of non-performance from the law firm purportedly on behalf of the holders of significant voting rights in various trusts securing over $28 billion of residential mortgage backed securities sponsored or underwritten by the company. the notice purports to identify certain covenants in pooling and servicing agreements ( psas ) that the holders allege that the servicer and master servicer failed to perform, and alleges that each of these failures has materially affected the rights of certificateholders and constitutes an ongoing event of default under the relevant psas. on november 2, 2012, the company responded to the letters, denying the allegations therein. commercial mortgage related matter. on january 25, 2011, the company was named as a defendant in the bank of new york mellon trust, national association v. morgan stanley mortgage capital, inc., a litigation pending in the sdny. the suit, brought by the trustee of a series of commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, alleges that the company breached certain representations and warranties with respect to an $81 million commercial mortgage loan that was originated and transferred to the trust by the company. the complaint seeks, among other things, to have the company repurchase the loan and pay additional monetary damages. on june 16, 2014, the court granted the company supplemental motion for summary judgment. on june 17, 2014, the court entered judgment in the company favor. on july 16, 2014, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal. matters related to the cds market. on july 1, 2013, the european commission ( ec ) issued a statement of objections ( so ) addressed to twelve financial firms (including the company), the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. ( isda ) and markit group limited ( markit ) and various affiliates alleging that, between 2006 and 2009, the recipients breached european union competition law by taking and refusing to take certain actions in an effort to prevent the development of exchange traded credit default swap ( cds ) products. the so indicates that the ec plans to impose remedial measures and fines on the recipients. the company and the other recipients of the so filed a response to the so on january 21, 2014, and attended oral hearings before the ec during the period may 12-19, 2014. the company oral hearing took place on may 15, 2014. the company filed a supplemental response to the so on july 11, 2014. the company and others have also responded to an investigation by the antitrust division of the united states department of justice related to the cds market. beginning in may 2013, twelve financial firms (including the company), as well as isda and markit, were named as defendants in multiple purported antitrust class actions now consolidated into a single proceeding in the sdny styled in re: credit default swaps antitrust litigation . plaintiffs allege that defendants violated united states antitrust laws from 2008 to present in connection with their alleged efforts to prevent the development of exchange traded cds products. the complaints seek, among other relief, certification of a class of plaintiffs who purchased cds from defendants in the united states, treble damages and injunctive relief. on september 4, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. the following matters were terminated during or following the quarter ended december 31, 2014: in re morgan stanley erisa litigation and coulter v. morgan stanley &amp; co . incorporated et al were purported class action complaints asserting claims on behalf of participants in the company 401(k) plan and employee stock ownership plan against the company and other parties, including certain present and former directors and officers, under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ) relating to the company subprime and other mortgage related losses. both cases were dismissed by the sdny and their dismissal affirmed by the second circuit. on december 3, 2014, the time for plaintiffs to pursue a further appeal expired. 48 table of contents in re morgan stanley mortgage pass-through certificates litigation , which had been pending in the sdny, was a putative class action involving allegations that, among other things, the registration statements and offering documents related to the offerings of certain mortgage pass-through certificates in 2006 and 2007 contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. on december 18, 2014, the parties agreement to settle the litigation received final court approval, and on december 19, 2014, the court entered an order dismissing the action. in re indymac mortgage-backed securities litigation , which had been pending in the sdny, was a class action involving allegations that, among other things, the registration statements and offering documents related to the offerings of certain mortgage pass-through certificates contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. on february 3, 2015, the court issued its final approval of the parties agreement to settle the litigation and on february 23, 2015, the court entered a final judgment dismissing the action. allstate insurance company, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al ., which had been pending in the supreme court of ny, involved allegations that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. on january 16, 2015, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 49 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. morgan stanley common stock trades under the symbol ms on the nyse. as of february 18, 2015, the company had 73,376 holders of record; however, the company believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number. the table below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of the company common stock as reported by bloomberg financial markets and the amount of any cash dividends per share of the company common stock declared by its board of directors for such quarter. low sale price high sale price dividends 2014: fourth quarter $ 31.35 $ 39.19 $ 0.10 third quarter $ 31.12 $ 36.44 $ 0.10 second quarter $ 28.31 $ 32.82 $ 0.10 first quarter $ 28.78 $ 33.52 $ 0.05 2013: fourth quarter $ 26.41 $ 31.85 $ 0.05 third quarter $ 23.83 $ 29.50 $ 0.05 second quarter $ 20.16 $ 27.17 $ 0.05 first quarter $ 19.32 $ 24.47 $ 0.05 50 table of contents the table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the company of its common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended december 31, 2014. issuer purchases of equity securities (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs(c) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs month #1 (october 1, 2014 october 31, 2014) share repurchase program(a) 1,372,885 $ 33.87 1,372,885 $ 534 employee transactions(b) 83,415 $ 34.12 month #2 (november 1, 2014 november 30, 2014) share repurchase program(a) 2,563,394 $ 35.32 2,563,394 $ 443 employee transactions(b) 71,601 $ 35.50 month #3 (december 1, 2014 december 31, 2014) share repurchase program(a) 3,628,350 $ 36.69 3,628,350 $ 310 employee transactions(b) 254,550 $ 35.87 total share repurchase program(a) 7,564,629 $ 35.71 7,564,629 $ 310 employee transactions(b) 409,566 $ 35.45 (a) the company board of directors has authorized the repurchase of the company outstanding stock under a share repurchase program (the share repurchase program ). the share repurchase program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. the share repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date. share repurchases by the company are subject to regulatory approval. in march 2014, the company received no objection from the federal reserve to repurchase up to $1 billion of the company outstanding common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2014 through the end of the first quarter of 2015 under the company 2014 capital plan. during the quarter ended december 31, 2014, the company repurchased approximately $271 million of the company outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program. for further information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital management in part ii, item 7. (b) includes: (1) shares delivered or attested in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee and director stock options (granted under employee and director stock compensation plans) who exercised options; (2) shares withheld, delivered or attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares; (3) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon the delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock units; and (4) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset the cash payment for fractional shares. the company employee and director stock compensation plans provide that the value of the shares withheld, delivered or attested, shall be valued using the fair market value of the company common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs, using a valuation methodology established by the company. (c) share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the company deems appropriate and may be suspended at any time. *** 51 table of contents stock performance graph. the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of the company common stock, the s&amp;p 500 stock index ( s&amp;p 500 ) and the s&amp;p 500 financials index ( s5finl ) for the last five years. the graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on december 31, 2009 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. this graph does not forecast future performance of the company common stock. ms s&amp;p 500 s5finl 12/31/2009 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 12/31/2010 $ 92.60 $ 115.06 $ 112.12 12/31/2011 $ 51.93 $ 117.48 $ 93.00 12/30/2012 $ 66.43 $ 136.27 $ 119.73 12/31/2013 $ 109.83 $ 180.83 $ 162.34 12/31/2014 $ 137.38 $ 205.07 $ 186.98 52 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. morgan stanley selected financial data (dollars in millions, except share and per share data) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 income statement data: revenues: total non-interest revenues $ 32,540 $ 31,715 $ 26,383 $ 31,953 $ 30,407 interest income 5,413 5,209 5,692 7,234 7,288 interest expense 3,678 4,431 5,897 6,883 6,394 net interest 1,735 778 (205 ) 351 894 net revenues 34,275 32,493 26,178 32,304 31,301 non-interest expenses: compensation and benefits 17,824 16,277 15,615 16,325 15,860 other 12,860 11,658 9,967 9,792 9,154 total non-interest expenses 30,684 27,935 25,582 26,117 25,014 income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,591 4,558 596 6,187 6,287 provision for (benefit from) income taxes (90 ) 902 (161 ) 1,491 823 income from continuing operations 3,681 3,656 757 4,696 5,464 discontinued operations(1): income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (19 ) (72 ) (48 ) (170 ) 600 provision for (benefit from) income taxes (5 ) (29 ) (7 ) (119 ) 362 income (loss) from discontinued operations (14 ) (43 ) (41 ) (51 ) 238 net income 3,667 3,613 716 4,645 5,702 net income applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests(2) 222 124 net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests(2) 200 459 524 535 999 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 3,467 $ 2,932 $ 68 $ 4,110 $ 4,703 preferred stock dividends and other 315 277 98 2,043 1,109 earnings (loss) applicable to morgan stanley common shareholders(3) $ 3,152 $ 2,655 $ (30 ) $ 2,067 $ 3,594 amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income from continuing operations $ 3,481 $ 2,975 $ 138 $ 4,168 $ 4,478 income (loss) from discontinued operations (14 ) (43 ) (70 ) (58 ) 225 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 3,467 $ 2,932 $ 68 $ 4,110 $ 4,703 53 table of contents 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 per share data: earnings (loss) per basic common share(4): income from continuing operations $ 1.65 $ 1.42 $ 0.02 $ 1.28 $ 2.49 income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.03 ) (0.04 ) (0.03 ) 0.15 earnings (loss) per basic common share $ 1.64 $ 1.39 $ (0.02 ) $ 1.25 $ 2.64 earnings (loss) per diluted common share(4): income from continuing operations $ 1.61 $ 1.38 $ 0.02 $ 1.27 $ 2.45 income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.02 ) (0.04 ) (0.04 ) 0.18 earnings (loss) per diluted common share $ 1.60 $ 1.36 $ (0.02 ) $ 1.23 $ 2.63 book value per common share(5) $ 33.25 $ 32.24 $ 30.70 $ 31.42 $ 31.49 dividends declared per common share 0.35 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.20 average common shares outstanding(3): basic 1,923,805,397 1,905,823,882 1,885,774,276 1,654,708,640 1,361,670,938 diluted 1,970,535,560 1,956,519,738 1,918,811,270 1,675,271,669 1,411,268,971 balance sheet and other operating data: trading assets $ 256,801 $ 280,744 $ 267,603 $ 275,353 $ 306,746 loans(6) 66,577 42,874 29,046 15,369 10,576 total assets 801,510 832,702 780,960 749,898 807,698 total deposits 133,544 112,379 83,266 65,662 63,812 long-term borrowings 152,772 153,575 169,571 184,234 192,457 morgan stanley shareholders equity 70,900 65,921 62,109 62,049 57,211 return on average common equity(7) 4.8 % 4.3 % n/m 3.8 % 9.0 % n/m not meaningful (1) prior-period amounts have been recast for discontinued operations. see note 1 to the company consolidated financial statements in item 8 for information on discontinued operations. (2) information includes 100%, 65% and 51% ownership of the retail securities joint venture between the company and citigroup inc. (the wealth management jv ) effective june 28, 2013, september 17, 2012 and may 31, 2009, respectively (see note 3 to the company consolidated financial statements in item 8). (3) amounts shown are used to calculate earnings (loss) per basic and diluted common share. (4) for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share, see note 16 to the company consolidated financial statements in other. other revenues were $320 million in 2014 compared with $390 million in 2013. the results in 2014 included a $40 million gain on sale of a retail property space. the decrease in 2014 primarily reflected a gain on sale of the u.k. operation of the global stock plan services business in the prior-year period and lower account fees. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses increased 3% in 2014 from 2013. compensation and benefits expenses increased 7% in 2014 from 2013, primarily due to a higher formulaic payout to wealth management representatives linked to higher net revenues, and an increase in base salaries. non-compensation expenses decreased 6% in 2014 from 2013, primarily driven by non-recurring technology write-offs and an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in the prior-year period, lower intangible amortization and a lower fdic assessment on deposits partially offset by a provision in the current year related to a rescission offer to wealth management clients who may not have received a prospectus for certain securities transactions as required. 2013 compared with 2012. transactional. investment banking. investment banking revenues increased 11% from 2012 to $923 million in 2013, primarily due to higher levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds and unit trusts. trading. trading revenues increased 12% from 2012 to $1,161 million in 2013, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from fixed income products. commissions and fees. commissions and fees revenues increased 6% from 2012 to $2,209 million in 2013, primarily due to higher equity, mutual fund and alternatives activity. 79 table of contents asset management. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% from 2012 to $7,571 million in 2013, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. the referral fees for deposits placed with citi-affiliated depository institutions declined to $240 million in 2013 from $383 million in 2012. lower revenues from the bank deposit program and the decrease in referral fees were both due to the ongoing transfer of deposits to the company from citi. balances in the bank deposit program were $134 billion at december 31, 2013 from $131 billion at december 31, 2012, which included deposits held by the company u.s. subsidiary banks of $104 billion at december 31, 2013 and $72 billion at december 31, 2012. client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $697 billion and represented 37% of total client assets at december 31, 2013 compared with $554 billion and 33% at december 31, 2012, respectively. total client asset balances increased to $1,909 billion at december 31, 2013 from $1,696 billion at december 31, 2012, primarily due to the impact of market conditions and higher fee-based client asset flows. effective from the quarter ended march 31, 2013, client assets also include certain additional non-custodied assets as a result of the completion of the wealth management jv platform conversion. fee-based client asset flows for 2013 were $51.9 billion compared with $26.9 billion in 2012. net interest. net interest increased 20% from 2012 to $1,875 million in 2013, primarily due to higher lending balances and growth in loans and lending commitments in pla securities-based lending products. in addition, interest expense declined in 2013 due to the company redemption of all the class a preferred interests owned by citi and its affiliates, in connection with the company acquisition of 100% ownership of the wealth management jv effective at the end of the second quarter of 2013. total client liability balances increased to $39 billion at december 31, 2013 from $31 billion at december 31, 2012. see other matters u.s. subsidiary banks lending activities herein and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in item 7a. other. other revenues increased 25% from 2012 to $390 million in 2013, primarily due to a gain on sale of the u.k. operation of the global stock plan services business and realized gains on afs securities. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses increased 1% in 2013 from 2012. compensation and benefits expenses increased 6% in 2013 from 2012, primarily due to a higher formulaic payout to wealth management representatives linked to higher net revenues. non-compensation expenses decreased 9% in 2013 from 2012, primarily driven by the absence of platform integration costs and non-recurring technology write-offs, partially offset by an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in 2013 (see note 9 to the company consolidated financial statements in item 8). income tax items. in 2014, the company recognized in provision for (benefit from) income taxes a discrete tax benefit of $1,390 million, attributable to its wealth management business segment, due to the release of a deferred tax liability as a result of an internal restructuring to simplify the company legal entity organization. for a further discussion of the discrete tax benefit, see other matters income tax matters herein. 80 table of contents investment management income statement information 2014 2013(1) 2012(1) (dollars in millions) revenues: investment banking $ 5 $ 11 $ 17 trading (19 ) 41 (44 ) investments 587 1,056 513 commissions and fees (6 ) asset management, distribution and administration fees 2,049 1,920 1,793 other 106 32 51 total non-interest revenues 2,728 3,060 2,324 interest income 2 9 10 interest expense 18 10 28 net interest (16 ) (1 ) (18 ) net revenues 2,712 3,059 2,306 compensation and benefits 1,213 1,189 848 non-compensation expenses 835 862 818 total non-interest expenses 2,048 2,051 1,666 income from continuing operations before income taxes 664 1,008 640 provision for income taxes 207 307 286 income from continuing operations 457 701 354 discontinued operations: income from discontinued operations before income taxes 7 9 13 provision for income taxes 2 4 income from discontinued operations 5 9 9 net income 462 710 363 net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 91 182 187 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 371 $ 528 $ 176 amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income from continuing operations $ 366 $ 519 $ 167 income from discontinued operations 5 9 9 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 371 $ 528 $ 176 (1) on october 1, 2014, the managed futures business was transferred from the company wealth management business segment to the company investment management business segment. all prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. 81 table of contents statistical data. the company investment management business segment period-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows: at december 31, average for 2014 2013(1) 2014 2013(1) 2012(1) (dollars in billions) assets under management or supervision by asset class: traditional asset management: equity $ 141 $ 140 $ 145 $ 130 $ 114 fixed income 65 60 63 61 59 liquidity 128 112 119 104 87 alternatives(2) 36 31 34 29 26 managed futures(1) 3 4 3 5 6 total traditional asset management 373 347 364 329 292 real estate investing 20 21 21 20 19 merchant banking 10 9 9 9 9 total assets under management or supervision $ 403 $ 377 $ 394 $ 358 $ 320 share of minority stake assets(3) $ 7 $ 6 $ 7 $ 6 $ 5 (1) on october 1, 2014, the managed futures business was transferred from the company wealth management business segment to the company investment management business segment. all prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. (2) the alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds. (3) amounts represent the company investment management business segment proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake. activity in the company investment management business segment assets under management or supervision during 2014, 2013 and 2012 was as follows: 2014 2013(1) 2012(1) (dollars in billions) balance at beginning of period $ 377 $ 343 $ 293 net flows by asset class: traditional asset management: equity (2 ) (1 ) (2 ) fixed income 5 (1 ) liquidity 17 12 26 alternatives(2) 4 2 1 managed futures(1) (1 ) (1 ) total traditional asset management 23 12 24 real estate investing (2 ) (1 ) 1 merchant banking 3 1 total net flows 24 12 25 net market appreciation 2 22 25 total net increase 26 34 50 balance at end of period $ 403 $ 377 $ 343 (1) on october 1, 2014, the managed futures business was transferred from the company wealth management business segment to the company investment management business segment. all prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. (2) the alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds. 82 table of contents 2014 compared with 2013. investment banking. the company investment management business segment generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate and merchant banking funds. trading. see business segments net revenues herein for information about the composition of trading revenues. the company recognized a loss of $19 million in 2014 compared with a gain of $41 million in 2013, which primarily reflected losses and gains, respectively, related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the company. investments. real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally subject to significant sales restrictions. estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. the company recorded net investment gains of $587 million in 2014 compared with gains of $1,056 million in 2013. the decrease in 2014 primarily related to lower net investment gains and the non-recurrence of carried interest in the company merchant banking and real estate investing businesses and lower gains from investments in the company employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. 2014 results were also negatively impacted by the deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the company. asset management, distribution and administration fees. see business segments net revenues herein for information about the composition of asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% from 2013 to $2,049 million in 2014. the increase primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues, as a result of higher average assets under management. the company assets under management increased $26 billion from $377 billion at december 31, 2013 to $403 billion at december 31, 2014, reflecting positive net flows and market appreciation. the company recorded net inflows of $24 billion in 2014, reflecting net customer inflows in liquidity, fixed income and alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows in equity and managed futures. the company recorded net customer inflows of $12 billion in 2013, primarily in liquidity funds. other. other revenues were $106 million in 2014 as compared with $32 million in 2013. the results in 2014 included higher revenues associated with the company minority investment in certain third-party investment managers and a $17 million gain on sale of a retail property space. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses of $2,048 million in 2014 were essentially unchanged from 2013. compensation and benefits expenses increased 2% in 2014 due to the reduction in deferral rates for incentive-based compensation, an increase in amortization due to accelerated vesting of certain awards and increases in salaries partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments (see also business segments compensation expense discretionary incentive compensation herein). non-compensation expenses decreased 3% in 2014, primarily due to an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in the prior-year period and the result of lower consumption taxes in the european union. 83 table of contents 2013 compared with 2012. trading. the company recognized gains of $41 million in 2013 compared with losses of $44 million in 2012. trading results in 2013 primarily reflected gains related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the company. trading results in 2012 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the company as well as losses on hedges on certain investments. investments. the company recorded net investment gains of $1,056 million in 2013 compared with gains of $513 million in 2012. the increase in 2013 was primarily related to higher net investment gains predominantly within the company merchant banking and real estate investing businesses and higher gains on certain investments associated with the company employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. results in 2013 also included the benefit of carried interest. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% from 2012 to $1,920 million in 2013. the increase primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues, primarily due to higher average assets under management, as well as higher performance fees. the company assets under management increased $34 billion from $343 billion at december 31, 2012 to $377 billion at december 31, 2013, reflecting market appreciation and positive net flows. the company recorded $22 billion in market appreciation and net inflows of $12 billion in 2013, primarily reflecting net customer inflows in liquidity funds. in 2012, the company recorded $25 billion in market appreciation and $25 billion in net customer inflows, primarily in liquidity funds. other. other revenues were $32 million in 2013 as compared with $51 million in 2012. the results in 2013 included higher revenues associated with the company minority investment in certain third-party investment managers. the results in 2012 included gains associated with the expiration of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the company. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses were $2,051 million in 2013 as compared with $1,666 million in 2012. compensation and benefits expenses increased 40% in 2013, primarily due to an increase in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments. non-compensation expenses increased 5% in 2013, primarily due to higher brokerage and clearing, professional services expenses and an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds partially offset by lower information processing expenses. income tax items. in 2012, the company recognized in provision for (benefit from) income taxes an out-of-period net tax provision of $107 million, attributable to its investment management business segment, primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments in prior years. the company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements. nonredeemable noncontrolling interests. nonredeemable noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds sponsored by the company. investment gains associated with these consolidated funds were $104 million, $151 million and $225 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. nonredeemable noncontrolling interests decreased in 2014, primarily due to the deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the company. 84 table of contents accounting development updates. amendments to the consolidation analysis. in february 2015, the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) issued an amendment update that changes the analysis that the company must perform to determine whether it should consolidate certain types of legal entities. the company is required to reevaluate its interests in legal entities in scope of the new guidance under the revised consolidation model. the guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2016. early adoption is permitted. the company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this amendment update. determining whether the host contract in a hybrid financial instrument issued in the form of a share is more akin to debt or to equity. in november 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update requiring entities to determine the nature of the host contract in a hybrid financial instrument issued in the form of a share by considering the economic characteristics and risks of the entire hybrid financial instrument, including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract, when evaluating whether the host contract is more akin to debt or equity and whether the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative feature are clearly and closely related to the host contract. the guidance is effective for the company beginning on january 1, 2016 and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis. the guidance may be applied on a full retrospective basis to all relevant prior periods and early adoption is permitted. this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. disclosure of uncertainties about an entity ability to continue as a going concern. in august 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update that provides guidance on management responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a company ability to continue as a going concern and the related footnote disclosures. for each reporting period, management will be required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about a company ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the date the financial statements are issued. the guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2017. early adoption is permitted. this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. measuring the financial assets and financial liabilities of a consolidated collateralized financing entity. in august 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update to clarify the measurement upon initial consolidation and subsequent measurement of the financial assets and the financial liabilities of a collateralized financing entity when the reporting entity has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of the collateralized financing entity. this guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2016. early adoption is permitted. the adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. accounting for share-based payments when the terms of an award provide that a performance target could be achieved after the requisite service period. in june 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update clarifying that entities should treat performance targets that could be met after the requisite service period of a share-based payment award as performance conditions that affect vesting. therefore, an entity would not record compensation expense (measured as of the grant date) for an award where transfer to the employee is contingent upon satisfaction of the performance target until it becomes probable that the performance target will be met. the guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2016. early adoption is permitted. this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. 85 table of contents repurchase-to-maturity transactions, repurchase financings, and disclosures. in june 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update requiring repurchase-to-maturity transactions be accounted for as secured borrowings consistent with the accounting for other repurchase agreements. this accounting update also requires separate accounting for a transfer of a financial asset executed contemporaneously with a repurchase agreement with the same counterparty (a repurchase financing), which will result in secured borrowing accounting for the repurchase agreement. this guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2015. in addition, new disclosures are required for sales of financial assets where the company retains substantially all the exposure throughout the term and the collateral pledged and remaining maturity of repurchase and securities lending agreements, which are effective january 1, 2015, and april 1, 2015, respectively. this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. revenue from contracts with customers. in may 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update to clarify the principles of revenue recognition, to develop a common revenue recognition standard across all industries for u.s. gaap and international financial reporting standards and to provide enhanced disclosures for users of the financial statements. the core principle of this guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. this guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2017. the company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this accounting standard update. reclassification of residential real estate collateralized consumer mortgage loans upon foreclosure. in january 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update clarifying when an in-substance repossession or foreclosure occurs; that is, when a creditor should be considered to have received physical possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a consumer mortgage loan such that the loan receivable should be derecognized and the real estate property recognized. this guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2015. this guidance can be applied using either a modified retrospective transition method or a prospective transition method. this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. 86 table of contents other matters. legal. on february 25, 2015, the company reached an agreement in principle with the united states department of justice, civil division and the u.s. attorney office for the northern district of california, civil division (collectively, the civil division ) to pay $2,600 million to resolve certain claims that the civil division indicated it intended to bring against the company related to legacy residential mortgage matters. this agreement in principle resulted from very rapidly evolving deliberations with the civil division, including meetings on february 18 and 19 and negotiations which continued through february 25, 2015. in connection with the resolution of this matter, the company has, subsequent to the announcement of the company 2014 earnings on january 20, 2015, increased previously established legal reserves for this settlement and other legacy residential mortgage matters by $2,798 million, which increased other expenses within the company institutional securities business segment for the year ended december 31, 2014. this decreased income from continuing operations by $2,670 million and diluted eps from continuing operations by $1.35 for the year ended december 31, 2014. the civil division legal matter was considered to be a recognizable subsequent event requiring adjustment to the company december 31, 2014 consolidated financial statements under u.s. gaap. while the company and the civil division have reached an agreement in principle to resolve this matter, there can be no assurance that the company and the civil division will agree on the final documentation of the settlement. the company incurred legal expenses of $3,411 million in 2014, $1,952 million in 2013 and $513 million in 2012. the legal expenses incurred in 2014 were primarily due to reserve additions related to the agreement reached in principle with the civil division mentioned above, as well as reserves related to certain claims that other members of the rmbs working group of the financial fraud enforcement task force have indicated they intend to bring against the company. the legal expenses incurred in 2013 and 2012 were primarily due to reserve additions and settlements related to legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis related matters (see contingencies legal in note 13 to the company consolidated financial statements in item 8). legal expenses are included in other expenses in the company consolidated statements of income. the company expects future legal expenses in general to continue to be elevated, and the changes in expenses from period to period may fluctuate significantly, given the current environment regarding financial crisis related government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the company. return on equity goal. the company is aiming to improve its returns to shareholders with a goal of achieving a 10% or more return on average common equity excluding dva ( return on equity ), subject to the successful execution of its strategic objectives. the company plans to progress toward achieving its return on equity goal through the following strategies. in the wealth management business, the company plans to continue to improve profitability through cost discipline and revenue growth, as reflected in a pre-tax margin target of 22% to 25% by year-end 2015. in the fixed income and commodities businesses, the company plans to improve its return on equity to more than 10% over time by: optimizing the commodities business through reducing exposure to physical commodities; pursuing in the fixed income business, a more centralized decision-making process with more strategic resource allocation and a focus on expenses, leveraging technology, capital and balance sheet optimization; and the continued reduction of rwas. across the entire organization, the company plans to pursue the following: executing its overall expense reduction plan and improving both compensation and non-compensation expense ratios; growing earnings through morgan stanley-specific opportunities, particularly with respect to deposit growth in its u.s. 87 table of contents subsidiary banks and optimization of lending products and afs securities; reducing funding costs due to the improvement in the company credit spreads and the refinancing of borrowings issued at higher interest rates; and prudently returning capital to shareholders, as appropriate, subject to regulatory approval. the company return on equity goal and its related strategies are forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by many factors including, among other things: macroeconomic and market conditions; legislative and regulatory developments; industry trading and investment banking volumes; equity market levels; interest rate environment; and legal expenses. given the uncertainties surrounding these and other factors, there are significant risks that the company return on equity goal may not be realized, and actual results may differ from the goal and the differences may be material and adverse. accordingly, the company cautions that undue reliance is not to be placed on any of these forward-looking statements. see forward-looking statements immediately preceding part i, item 1, and risk factors in part i, item 1a for additional information regarding these forward-looking statements. return on equity is a non-gaap financial measure that the company considers to be a useful measure to the company and investors to assess operating performance. u.s. subsidiary banks lending activities. the company provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals, primarily through the company u.s. subsidiary banks. the company lending activities in its institutional securities business segment primarily include corporate lending activities, in which the company provides loans or lending commitments to certain corporate clients. in addition to corporate lending activities, the institutional securities business segment engages in other lending activities. the company lending activities in its wealth management business segment include securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities in plas and residential mortgage lending. the company expects its lending activities to continue to grow through further penetration of the company institutional securities and wealth management business segments client base. the following table presents the company u.s. subsidiary banks lending activities included in its consolidated statements of financial condition: at december 31, 2014 at december 31, 2013 (dollars in billions) institutional securities u.s. subsidiary banks data: corporate lending $ 9.6 $ 8.8 other lending(1): corporate loans 8.0 2.3 wholesale real estate loans 8.6 1.8 wealth management u.s. subsidiary banks data: securities-based lending and other loans $ 21.9 $ 14.7 residential real estate loans 15.8 10.1 (1) in addition to primary corporate lending activity, the company institutional securities business segment engages in other lending activities. these activities include commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, financing extended to institutional equities clients and loans to municipalities. the increase in other lending from 2013 primarily reflects growth in commercial mortgage and asset-backed loans. for a further discussion of the company credit risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in item 7a. also see notes 8 and 13 to the company consolidated financial statements in item 8 for additional information about the company loans and lending commitments, respectively. 88 table of contents investment securities available for sale and held to maturity. during 2014, 2013 and 2012, the company reported net unrealized gains (losses) of $209 million, $(433) million and $28 million, net of tax, respectively, on its afs securities portfolio. unrealized gains (losses) in the afs securities portfolio are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for all periods presented. the unrealized gains and losses for 2014, 2013 and 2012 were primarily due to changes in interest rates. the securities in the company afs securities portfolio with an unrealized loss were not other-than-temporarily impaired at december 31, 2014, december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012. in 2014, the company purchased $100 million in htm securities and expects to grow its htm investment securities portfolio. for more information, see notes 2 and 5 to the company consolidated financial statements in operational risk rwas reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). the company may incur operational risks across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). in addition, given the evolving regulatory and litigation environment across the financial services industry and that operational risk rwas incorporate the impact of such related matters, operational risk rwas have increased and may continue to do so. the basel committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the basel iii framework that, if adopted by the u.s. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to u.s. basel iii. in particular, the basel committee has finalized a new methodology for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures, the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures ( sa-ccr ); has finalized a revised framework establishing capital requirements for securitizations; and has proposed revisions to various regulatory capital standards, including for trading and banking book exposures, the credit risk framework and capital floors. in each case, the impact of these revised standards on the company and the company u.s. subsidiary banks is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the u.s. banking agencies. calculation of risk-based capital ratios. on february 21, 2014, the federal reserve and the occ approved the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks respective use of the u.s. basel iii advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the capital floor discussed below (the advanced 108 table of contents approach ). as an advanced approach banking organization, the company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk rwas and market risk rwas (the standardized approach ); and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk rwas, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk rwas, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk rwas under u.s. basel iii. to implement a provision of the dodd-frank act, u.s. basel iii subjects advanced approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the company, to a permanent capital floor. in 2014, as a result of the capital floor, an advanced approach banking organization binding risk-based capital ratios were the lower of its ratios computed under the advanced approach and u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5. beginning on january 1, 2015, the company ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the advanced approach or the standardized approach under u.s. basel iii. the u.s. basel iii standardized approach modifies certain u.s. basel i-based methods for calculating rwas and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and exposures. the capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital requirements as well as the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer (if deployed by banking regulators), and, if adopted, the proposed global systemically important bank ( g-sib ) buffer. the methods for calculating each of the company risk-based capital ratios will change through january 1, 2022 as u.s. basel iii revisions to the numerator and denominator are phased in and as the company calculates rwas using the advanced approach and the standardized approach. these ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the company reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to the company capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile. the basis for the calculation of the company u.s. basel iii capital ratios, on a transitional and fully phased-in basis, are presented below: transition period fully phased-in(1) first quarter of 2014 second to fourth quarter of 2014 2015 to 2017 2018 and onward regulatory capital (numerator of risk-based capital and leverage ratios) u.s. basel iii transitional(2) u.s. basel iii rwas (denominator of risk-based capital ratios) standardized approach(3) u.s. basel i and basel 2.5 u.s. basel iii standardized approach advanced approach(4) u.s. basel iii advanced approach denominator of leverage ratios tier 1 leverage ratio adjusted average on-balance sheet assets(5) supplementary leverage ratio(6) adjusted average on-balance sheet assets(5) and certain off-balance sheet exposures (1) by the beginning of 2018, u.s. basel iii rules defining capital (numerator of capital ratios) will be fully phased in, except for the exclusion of non-qualifying trust preferred securities from tier 2 capital, which will be fully phased-in as of january 1, 2022. in addition, the company will also be subject to a greater than 2.5% common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer, a g-sib capital surcharge (if adopted) and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer, all of which will be fully phased in by the beginning of 2019. the capital conservation buffer, the g-sib capital surcharge and, if deployed, the countercyclical buffer apply in addition to each of the company common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total capital ratios. the requirements for these additional capital buffers will be phased in beginning in 2016. (2) beginning june 30, 2014, as a result of the company and the company u.s. subsidiary banks completion of the advanced approach parallel run, the amount of expected credit loss that exceeds eligible credit reserves must be deducted 20% from common 109 table of contents equity tier 1 capital and 80% from additional tier 1 capital. over the next several years, this deduction from common equity tier 1 capital will incrementally increase and the amount deducted from additional tier 1 capital will correspondingly decrease, until fully phased in by the beginning of 2018. in addition, under the advanced approach framework, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in tier 2 capital. instead, an advanced approach banking organization may include in tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its advanced approach credit risk rwas. the allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5 and under the standardized approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk rwas. (3) beginning in 2015, the company is required to calculate credit risk rwas and market risk rwas under the u.s. basel iii standardized approach. (4) public reporting of advanced approach capital ratios began during the second quarter of 2014. (5) in accordance with u.s. basel iii, adjusted average assets represent the company average total on-balance sheet assets minus certain amounts deducted from tier 1 capital. (6) beginning in 2015, the company is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio, which will become effective as a capital standard on january 1, 2018. beginning in the first quarter of 2014, the company calculated the numerator of its risk-based capital ratios using the amount of common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and total capital determined under u.s. basel iii, subject to transitional arrangements. in the first quarter of 2014, the company calculated the denominator of its risk-based capital ratios using the existing u.s. basel i-based rules as supplemented by basel 2.5. beginning in the second quarter of 2014, the company risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes were the lower of each ratio calculated under u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5 and the advanced approach. regulatory capital ratios. the following table presents the company regulatory capital ratios at december 31, 2014, as well as the minimum required regulatory capital ratios applicable under u.s. basel iii in 2014. at december 31, 2014, the company risk-based capital ratios (as a result of the capital floor) were based on the advanced approach transitional rules. at december 31, 2014 actual capital ratio minimum regulatory capital ratio(1) u.s. basel iii transitional/ advanced approach u.s. basel iii transitional/ u.s. basel i + basel 2.5 approach 2014 common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.6 % 14.7 % 4.0 % tier 1 capital ratio 14.1 % 16.5 % 5.5 % total capital ratio 16.4 % 19.4 % 8.0 % tier 1 leverage ratio(2) 7.9 % 7.9 % 4.0 % (1) percentages show minimum capital ratios for calendar year 2014 under u.s. basel iii transitional provisions. (2) tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of tier 1 capital to average total on-balance sheet assets minus certain amounts deducted from tier 1 capital in accordance with u.s. basel iii rules. effective january 1, 2015, for the company to remain a financial holding company, its u.s. subsidiary banks must qualify as well-capitalized under the higher capital requirements of u.s. basel iii by maintaining a total risk-based capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5%, and a tier 1 leverage ratio (tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of at least 5%. the federal reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards in u.s. basel iii. assuming that the federal reserve would apply the same or very similar well-capitalized standards to financial holding companies, each of the company risk-based capital ratios and tier 1 leverage ratio at december 31, 2014 would have exceeded the revised well-capitalized standard. the federal reserve may require the company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. 110 table of contents the following is a roll-forward of the company common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital calculated under u.s. basel iii on a transitional basis from december 31, 2013 to december 31, 2014. 2014 (dollars in millions) common equity tier 1 capital: tier 1 common capital under u.s. basel i rules at december 31, 2013 $ 49,917 change in the value of shareholders common equity 2,179 new items subject to deduction and adjustments under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules: credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (161 ) expected credit loss that exceeds eligible credit reserves(1) (10 ) other new deductions and adjustments (181 ) modification of existing deductions under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules: net goodwill (17 ) net intangible assets (other than goodwill and mortgage servicing assets) 2,647 net deferred tax assets 2,299 net after-tax debt valuation adjustment(2) (1,117 ) adjustments related to accumulated other comprehensive income 184 u.s. basel i deductions that are no longer applicable under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules 1,584 common equity tier 1 capital under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules at december 31, 2014 $ 57,324 additional tier 1 capital: additional tier 1 capital under u.s. basel i rules at december 31, 2013 $ 11,090 new issuance of qualifying preferred stock 2,800 modification of treatment of additional tier 1 capital components under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules: trust preferred securities (2,327 ) nonredeemable noncontrolling interests (2,105 ) new items subject to deduction and adjustments under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules: net deferred tax assets (2,318 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (644 ) net after-tax debt valuation adjustment(2) 630 expected credit loss that exceeds eligible credit reserves (39 ) other adjustments and deductions (229 ) additional tier 1 capital at december 31, 2014 $ 6,858 tier 1 capital (common equity tier 1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital) at december 31, 2014 $ 64,182 tier 2 capital: tier 2 capital under u.s. basel i rules at december 31, 2013 $ 4,993 change in subordinated debt 2,780 de-recognition of allowance for loan and lease losses under basel iii advanced approach transitional rules(3) (284 ) new capital components subject to recognition under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules: trust preferred securities 2,434 nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 27 new items subject to deduction and adjustments under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules (10 ) u.s. basel i deductions that are no longer applicable under u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules 850 tier 2 capital at december 31, 2014 $ 10,790 total capital at december 31, 2014 $ 74,972 (1) in 2014, as a result of the company and the company u.s. subsidiary banks completion of the advanced approach parallel run, the amount of expected credit loss that exceeded eligible credit reserves was deducted 20% from common equity tier 1 capital and 80% 111 table of contents from additional tier 1 capital. over the next several years, this deduction from common equity tier 1 capital will incrementally increase, and the amount deducted from additional tier 1 capital will correspondingly decrease, until fully phased-in by 2018. (2) the aggregate balance of net after-tax debt valuation adjustment includes an approximate $69 million reconciling adjustment related to a prior period. (3) for purposes of calculating capital ratios under the advanced approach, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in tier 2 capital. instead, an advanced approach banking organization may include in tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its advanced approach credit risk rwas. the allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under u.s. basel i and basel 2.5 and under the standardized approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk rwas. the following represents a roll-forward of the company rwas based on pro forma estimates of rwas under the advanced approach from december 31, 2013 to december 31, 2014. 2014(1) (dollars in millions) credit risk rwas: balance under u.s. basel i rules at december 31, 2013 $ 256,606 change related to u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules(2) (72,792 ) change related to the following items: derivatives 250 securities financing transactions (6,090 ) other counterparty credit risk (264 ) securitizations (1,068 ) credit valuation adjustment (4,158 ) afs debt securities 1,264 loans 7,689 cash (2,245 ) equity investments 2,571 other credit risk(3) 2,882 total change in credit risk rwas (71,961 ) balance at december 31, 2014 $ 184,645 market risk rwas: balance under u.s. basel 2.5 rules at december 31, 2013 $ 133,760 change related to u.s. basel iii advanced approach rules(2) 12,369 change related to the following items: regulatory var (1,191 ) regulatory stressed var (150 ) incremental risk charge (5,289 ) comprehensive risk measure (6,768 ) specific risk: non-securitizations (6,465 ) securitizations (4,903 ) total change in market risk rwas (12,397 ) balance at december 31, 2014 $ 121,363 operational risk rwas: balance under u.s. basel i rules at december 31, 2013 $ n/a change related to u.s. basel iii advanced approach rules(2) 150,000 balance at december 31, 2014 $ 150,000 n/a not applicable. 112 table of contents var value-at-risk. (1) the rwas for each category in the above table reflect both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, where appropriate. (2) represents the estimated impact of the change in methodology to present december 31, 2013 rwas on a pro forma basis under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules. (3) amount reflects assets not in a defined category, non-material portfolios of exposures and unsettled transactions. the company is required to calculate capital ratios under both the advanced approach and the standardized approach, represented as u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5, as of december 31, 2014, in both cases subject to transitional provisions. the capital ratios calculated under the advanced approach were lower than those calculated under the standardized approach, represented as u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5, and therefore, are the binding ratios for the company at december 31, 2014 as a result of the capital floor. the following table summarizes the company common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013: at december 31, 2014 at december 31, 2013 u.s. basel iii transitional/ advanced approach u.s. basel i(1) (dollars in millions) common equity tier 1 capital: common stock and surplus $ 21,503 $ 21,622 retained earnings 44,625 42,172 accumulated other comprehensive (loss) (1,248 ) (1,093 ) regulatory adjustments and deductions: less: net goodwill (6,612 ) (6,595 ) less: net intangible assets (other than goodwill and mortgage servicing assets) (632 ) (3,279 ) less: credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (161 ) n/a less: net deferred tax assets (580 ) (2,879 ) after-tax debt valuation adjustment(2) 158 1,275 adjustments related to accumulated other comprehensive income 462 278 expected credit loss over eligible credit reserves(3) (10 ) n/a other adjustments and deductions (181 ) (1,584 ) total common equity tier 1 capital $ 57,324 $ 49,917 additional tier 1 capital: preferred stock $ 6,020 $ 3,220 trust preferred securities 2,434 4,761 nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 1,004 3,109 regulatory adjustments and deductions: less: net deferred tax assets (2,318 ) n/a less: credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (644 ) n/a after-tax debt valuation adjustment(2) 630 n/a expected credit loss over eligible credit reserves (39 ) n/a other adjustments and deductions (229 ) n/a additional tier 1 capital $ 6,858 $ 11,090 total tier 1 capital $ 64,182 $ 61,007 tier 2 capital: subordinated debt $ 8,339 $ 5,559 trust preferred securities 2,434 n/a other qualifying amounts(3) 27 284 regulatory adjustments and deductions (10 ) (850 ) total tier 2 capital $ 10,790 $ 4,993 total capital $ 74,972 $ 66,000 n/a not applicable. 113 table of contents (1) the standards applicable in 2013 included u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5. (2) the aggregate balance of net after-tax debt valuation adjustment includes an approximate $69 million reconciling adjustment related to a prior period. (3) for purposes of calculating capital ratios under the advanced approach, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in tier 2 capital. instead, an advanced approach banking organization may include in tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its advanced approach credit risk rwas. the allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under u.s. basel i and basel 2.5 and under the standardized approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk rwas. the following table presents the company rwas and regulatory capital ratios at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013: at december 31, 2014 at december 31, 2013 u.s. basel iii transitional/ advanced approach u.s. basel i(1) (dollars in millions) rwas: credit risk $ 184,645 $ 256,606 market risk 121,363 133,760 operational risk 150,000 n/a total rwas $ 456,008 $ 390,366 capital ratios: common equity tier 1 ratio/tier 1 common capital ratio 12.6 % 12.8 % tier 1 capital ratio 14.1 % 15.6 % total capital ratio 16.4 % 16.9 % tier 1 leverage ratio 7.9 % 7.6 % adjusted average assets $ 810,524 $ 805,838 n/a not applicable. (1) the standards applicable in 2013 included u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5. the company total capital, tier 1 capital, tier 1 common capital and tier 1 leverage ratios and rwas at december 31, 2013 were calculated under this framework. the following table presents the company pro forma estimates under the fully phased-in advanced approach and the fully phased-in u.s. basel iii standardized approach at december 31, 2014: at december 31, 2014 fully phased-in basis pro forma estimates u.s. basel iii advanced approach u.s. basel iii standardized approach (dollars in millions) common equity tier 1 capital $ 49,433 $ 49,433 rwas 463,099 454,968 common equity tier 1 capital ratio 10.7 % 10.9 % these fully phased-in basis pro forma estimates are based on the company current understanding of u.s. basel iii and other factors, which may be subject to change as the company receives additional clarification and implementation guidance from the federal reserve relating to u.s. basel iii and as the interpretation of the regulation evolves over time. the fully phased-in basis pro forma common equity tier 1 capital, rwas and common equity tier 1 risked-based capital ratio estimates are non-gaap financial measures that the company considers to be useful measures for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that were not yet effective at december 31, 2014. these preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should not be taken as a projection of what the company capital ratios, rwas, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. 114 table of contents on a fully phased-in basis, the company will be subject to the following minimum capital ratios under u.s. basel iii: common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; total capital ratio of 8.0%; tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; and supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. in addition, on a fully phased-in basis by 2019, the company will be subject to a greater than 2.5% common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer. the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, if any, apply over each of the company common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios. failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the company ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. in addition, in december 2014, the federal reserve issued a proposed rule that would impose a risk-based capital surcharge on u.s. bank holding companies that are identified as g-sibs. see g-sib capital surcharge herein. beginning in 2018, the company will also be subject to enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards (see supplementary leverage ratio herein). capital plans and stress tests . pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the company, which form part of the federal reserve annual comprehensive capital analysis and review ( ccar ) framework. under the federal reserve capital plan rule, the company must submit an annual capital plan to the federal reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the company and the federal reserve, so that the federal reserve may assess the company systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain its internal capital adequacy. the capital plan rule requires that such companies receive no objection from the federal reserve before making a capital distribution. in addition, even with an approved capital plan, a large bank holding company must seek the approval of the federal reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, it would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. in addition, the federal reserve final rule on stress testing under the dodd-frank act requires the company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. the rule also subjects the company to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the federal reserve. the company received no objection to its 2014 capital plan (see capital management herein). the company expects that, on march 11, 2015, the federal reserve will provide its response to the company 2015 capital plan, which was submitted to the federal reserve on january 5, 2015. on january 5, 2015, the company submitted the results of its semi-annual stress test to the federal reserve. on march 5, 2015, the federal reserve will publish summary results of the supervisory stress tests of each large bank holding company, including the company. in addition, the company is required to disclose a summary of the results of its company-run stress tests within 15 days of the date the federal reserve discloses the results of the supervisory stress test. in february 2014, the federal reserve issued a final rule specifying how large bank holding companies, including the company, must incorporate u.s. basel iii into their capital plans and dodd-frank act stress tests beginning with the october 1, 2014 cycle. among other things, the final rule requires a large bank holding company to project its tier 1 common capital ratio using the methodology of u.s. basel i as supplemented by basel 2.5 and its common equity tier 1 ratio using u.s. basel iii standardized approach after giving effect to transition provisions. the final rule also requires advanced approach banking organizations that have exited from the parallel run, including the company, to incorporate the advanced approach into their capital planning and company-run stress tests beginning with the october 1, 2015 cycle. in october 2014, the federal reserve revised its capital planning and stress testing regulations to, among other things, generally limit a large bank holding company ability to make capital distributions (other than scheduled payments on additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital instruments) if the bank holding company net capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan, and to shift the start and submission dates of the capital plan and stress test cycles beginning with the 2016 cycle. the dodd-frank act also requires each of the company u.s. subsidiary banks to conduct an annual stress test. msbna submitted its 2015 annual company-run stress tests to the occ on january 5, 2015 and will publish a 115 table of contents summary of its stress test results between march 15 and march 31, 2015. mspbna will submit its annual company-run stress tests to the occ in march 2015, and publish the summary results between june 15 and june 30, 2015. in june 2014, the occ issued a proposed rule to, among other things, shift the timing of the annual stress testing cycle that applies to the company u.s. subsidiary banks beginning with the 2016 cycle. g-sib capital surcharge. although u.s. basel iii is in effect, the u.s. banking agencies and the basel committee have each proposed, or are considering proposing, revisions to the regulatory capital framework that would modify the regulatory capital standards governing the company and the company u.s. subsidiary banks. in december 2014, the federal reserve issued a proposed rule that would impose risk-based capital surcharges on u.s. bank holding companies that are identified as g-sibs. although the federal reserve proposal is based upon the basel committee international g-sib surcharge framework, the methodologies proposed by the federal reserve generally would result in g-sib surcharges that are higher than the levels required by the basel committee framework and would directly take into account the extent of each u.s. g-sib reliance on short-term wholesale funding. under the proposal, a bank holding company identified as a g-sib would calculate its g-sib surcharge under two methods. the first would consider the g-sib size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the basel committee. the second method would use similar inputs, but would replace substitutability with use of short-term wholesale funding and generally would result in higher surcharges than the basel committee framework. a g-sib surcharge would be the higher of the surcharges determined under the two methods. under the proposal, the g-sib surcharge must be satisfied using common equity tier 1 capital and would function as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. the federal reserve estimates that its proposal could result in g-sib surcharges ranging from 1.0% to 4.5% of a g-sib rwas. the surcharge proposal would be phased in between january 1, 2016 and january 1, 2019. supplementary leverage ratio. u.s. basel iii requires the company and the company u.s. subsidiary banks to comply with supplementary leverage ratio requirements, which the u.s. banking agencies increased in 2014 above standards established by the basel committee. specifically, beginning in 2018, the company must maintain a tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of greater than 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of greater than 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. in addition, beginning in 2018, the company u.s. subsidiary banks must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered well-capitalized. the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio, as revised by the u.s. banking agencies in 2014 to conform with revised leverage standards adopted by the basel committee, is calculated for each reporting quarter based on the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under u.s. gaap less certain amounts deducted from tier 1 capital at quarter-end and the average month-end balance of certain off-balance sheet exposures associated with derivatives (including centrally cleared derivatives and sold credit protection), repo-style transactions and other off-balance sheet items during the calendar quarter. the enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards will become effective for both the company and its u.s. subsidiary banks on january 1, 2018 with quarterly public disclosure beginning on january 1, 2015. the company estimates its pro forma supplementary leverage ratio to be approximately 4.7% at december 31, 2014. this estimate utilizes a fully phased-in u.s. basel iii tier 1 capital numerator and a denominator of approximately $1.19 trillion. the denominator represents the company consolidated assets under u.s. gaap as adjusted, among other items, by: (i) the addition of the potential future exposure for derivative contracts (including contracts cleared for clients), off-balance sheet exposures multiplied by their respective credit conversion factors, counterparty credit risk associated with repo-style transactions and the effective notional amount of sold credit protection reduced by certain qualifying purchased credit protection; and (ii) the subtraction of certain amounts deducted from tier 1 capital under u.s. basel iii. the pro forma supplementary 116 table of contents leverage ratio estimate is a non-gaap financial measure that the company considers to be a useful measure for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. the company expects to achieve a supplementary leverage ratio of greater than 5% in 2015 through accretion of capital and other actions which may include derivative portfolio compression and other balance sheet optimization. the company estimated supplementary leverage ratio is based upon its current interpretation and expectations regarding the implementation of applicable regulations and remains subject to ongoing review and revision. the company expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from estimates based on these regulations. further, these expectations should not be taken as projections of what the company supplemental leverage ratios or earnings, assets or exposures will actually be at future dates. for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. required capital. the company required capital ( required capital ) estimation is based on the required capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. this framework is a risk-based and leverage use-of-capital measure, which is compared with the company regulatory capital to ensure that the company maintains an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events, where applicable, at a point in time. the company defines the difference between its regulatory capital and aggregate required capital as parent capital. average common equity tier 1 capital, aggregate required capital and parent capital for 2014 were approximately $57.6 billion, $38.4 billion and $19.2 billion, respectively. the company generally holds parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, including u.s. basel iii transitional deductions and adjustments expected to reduce the company capital through 2018. the increase in parent capital from december 31, 2013 to december 31, 2014 was primarily driven by these transitional provisions. the company also holds parent capital for organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs. common equity tier 1 capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the required capital framework as well as each business segment relative contribution to total company required capital. required capital is assessed at each business segment and further attributed to product lines. this process is intended to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. the required capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. the company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate. the following table presents the company business segments and parent average common equity tier 1 capital and average common equity for 2014 and average tier 1 common capital and average common equity for 2013: december 31, 2014 (u.s. basel iii) december 31, 2013 (u.s. basel i + basel 2.5) average common equity tier 1 capital average common equity average tier 1 common capital average common equity (dollars in billions) institutional securities $ 31.3 $ 32.2 $ 32.7 $ 37.9 wealth management 5.2 11.2 4.3 13.2 investment management 1.9 2.9 1.7 2.8 parent capital 19.2 19.0 9.0 8.0 total $ 57.6 $ 65.3 $ 47.7 $ 61.9 117 table of contents resolution and recovery planning. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. on august 5, 2014, the federal reserve and the fdic notified the company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans must be addressed in the 2015 resolution plans, which must be submitted on or before july 1, 2015. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to determine that the company resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the company does not cure the plan deficiencies, the company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or the company may be required to divest assets or operations. in addition, msbna must submit to the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes msbna strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of the material financial distress or failure of msbna. on december 17, 2014, the fdic issued guidance regarding the resolution plans for insured depository institutions such as msbna, including requirements with respect to failure scenarios and the development and analysis of a range of realistic resolution strategies. further, the company is required to submit an annual recovery plan to the federal reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to reduce risk, increase liquidity, and conserve capital in times of prolonged stress. certain of the company foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. under the dodd-frank act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the company and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to resolution under an orderly liquidation authority with the fdic appointed as receiver with considerable powers. a financial company whose largest u.s. subsidiary is a broker or dealer could be resolved under this authority only upon the recommendation of two-thirds of the federal reserve board and two-thirds of the sec commissioners, on their own initiative or at the request of the u.s. treasury secretary, and in consultation with the fdic as well as a determination by the u.s. treasury secretary in consultation with the president of the u.s. in december 2013, the fdic released its proposed single point of entry strategy for resolution of a systemically important financial institution under the orderly liquidation authority. the strategy involves placing the top-tier u.s. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority. the federal reserve has indicated that it may also introduce a requirement that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt at the holding company level to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms. in november 2014, the financial stability board ( fsb ) issued a policy proposal to establish a minimum international standard for total loss-absorbing capacity ( tlac ) for g-sibs, in addition to regulatory capital requirements, in order to enhance the loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity of such institutions in resolution. the fsb proposed minimum tlac requirement would be set within the range of 16% to 20% of rwas (excluding any applicable regulatory capital buffers, which would continue to be required in addition to the minimum tlac requirement) and at least twice the minimum basel iii tier 1 leverage ratio requirement. regulators may also impose an additional tlac requirement taking into account the g-sib recovery and resolution plans, systemic footprint, business model, risk profile and organizational structure. the minimum tlac requirement would apply to each entity to which resolution tools would be applied within a g-sib. the fsb has proposed eligibility criteria for liabilities to qualify as tlac and a requirement that tlac-eligible liabilities be subordinated to non-tlac-eligible liabilities. in addition, certain material entities that are not resolution entities would be subject to an internal tlac requirement. according to the fsb, the conformance period for the tlac requirement would not begin prior to january 1, 2019. 118 table of contents for further information on the company resolution planning, see business supervision and regulation resolution and recovery planning in part i, item 1. off-balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities. the company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its institutional securities and investment management business segments. institutional securities activities. the company utilizes special purpose entities ( spe ) primarily in connection with securitization activities. the company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. the company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. these retained interests are included in the company consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the company consolidated statements of income. retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, respectively, substantially all of which were related to u.s. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. for further information about the company securitization activities, see note 7 to the company consolidated financial statements in in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations. 121 table of contents the company future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at december 31, 2014 are summarized below: payments due in: at december 31, 2014 2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 20,740 $ 44,643 $ 35,250 $ 52,139 $ 152,772 other secured financings(1) 3,341 5,586 980 439 10,346 contractual interest payments(2) 5,384 8,615 5,759 21,025 40,783 time deposits(3) 1,386 1,386 operating leases premises(4) 599 1,159 847 2,588 5,193 operating leases equipment(4) 204 200 145 61 610 purchase obligations(5) 546 615 244 70 1,475 total(6) $ 32,200 $ 60,818 $ 43,225 $ 76,322 $ 212,565 (1) see note 11 to the company consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 13 institutional securities and wealth management. the company competitive position for its institutional securities and wealth management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. the company competes directly in the u.s. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. additionally, there is increased competition driven by established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and services. 1 table of contents the company ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by the company credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. corporate clients may request that the company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to increase in the future. it is possible that competition may become even more intense as the company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on the company businesses. in addition, the company business is subject to increased regulation in the u.s. and abroad, while certain of its competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the company, thereby putting the company at a competitive disadvantage. the company continues to experience intense price competition in some of its businesses. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional trading moves to more automated platforms. it is also possible that the company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing). investment management. competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including the company reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. the company investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the company. supervision and regulation. as a major financial services firm, the company is subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it conducts its business. moreover, in response to the 2007 2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose or are in the process of implementing a wide range of reforms that have resulted or that will result in major changes to the way the company is regulated and conducts its business. these reforms include the dodd-frank act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted by the basel committee on banking supervision (the basel committee ), including basel iii, and the national implementation of those standards; capital planning and stress testing requirements; proposed requirements for total loss-absorbing capacity, including long-term debt; and new resolution regimes that are being developed in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. it is likely that there will be further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the u.s. and other markets in which the company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the company business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. financial holding company. consolidated supervision. the company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the bhc act since september 2008. as a bank holding company, the company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the federal reserve. as a result of the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of the company subsidiaries. in particular, as a result of the dodd-frank act, the company is, or will become, subject to (among other things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; more intensive scrutiny of its businesses and plans for expansion of those 2 table of contents businesses; new activities limitations; a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the bhc act added by the dodd-frank act referred to as the volcker rule; and comprehensive derivatives regulation. in addition, the consumer financial protection bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over the company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable. scope of permitted activities. the bhc act limits the activities of bank holding companies and financial holding companies and grants the federal reserve authority to limit the company ability to conduct activities. the company must obtain the federal reserve approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the u.s. and internationally. since becoming a bank holding company, the company has disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the bhc act. the bhc act grandfathers activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that the company was engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within the company reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of the company commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then the company would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. at this time, the company believes, based on its interpretation of applicable law, that (i) such commodities activities qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption or otherwise conform to the bhc act and (ii) if the federal reserve were to determine otherwise, any required divestment would not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition. additionally, the federal reserve has stated that it is considering the issuance of a formal notice of proposed rulemaking to address the risks associated with financial holding companies physical commodities activities and merchant banking investments in nonfinancial companies, including rules that may impose additional capital, risk management and reporting requirements. activities restrictions under the volcker rule. the volcker rule prohibits banking entities, including the company and its affiliates, from engaging in certain proprietary trading activities, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. the volcker rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with covered funds, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions. banking entities were required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the volcker rule by july 21, 2015, subject to certain extensions. in addition, the volcker rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the volcker rule. the volcker rule also requires that deductions be made from a bank holding company tier 1 capital for certain permissible investments in covered funds. beginning with the three months ended september 30, 2015, the required deductions are reflected in the company relevant regulatory capital tiers and ratios. given its complexity, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. capital standards. the federal reserve establishes capital requirements for the company and evaluates its compliance with such requirements. the office of the comptroller of the currency (the occ ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the company u.s. bank subsidiaries, morgan stanley bank, n.a. ( msbna ) and morgan stanley private bank, national association ( mspbna ) (collectively, u.s. bank subsidiaries ). basel iii. the current risk-based and leverage capital framework governing the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries is based on the basel iii capital standards established by the basel committee, as modified in certain respects by the u.s. banking agencies, and is referred to herein as u.s. basel iii. under u.s. basel iii, on a fully phased-in basis, the company will be subject to the following requirements: a minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; total capital ratio of 8.0%; and tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; a supplementary leverage ratio of at least 5.0%, which includes a tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of at least 2.0% in addition to the 3.0% minimum supplementary leverage ratio; 3 table of contents a greater than 2.5% common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer; up to a 2.5% common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer, if deployed by banking regulators; and a global systemically important bank capital surcharge, which the federal reserve calculated at 3% for the company in july 2015. the federal reserve may require the company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk- and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. in order for the company u.s. bank subsidiaries to qualify as well-capitalized under the higher capital requirements in u.s. basel iii, they must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5% and a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. the federal reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards in u.s. basel iii. the basel committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the basel iii framework that, if adopted by the u.s. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to u.s. basel iii. for more information about the capital requirements applicable to the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. capital planning, stress tests and capital distributions. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the company. the dodd-frank act also requires each of the company u.s. bank subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. for more information about the capital planning and stress test requirements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. in addition to capital planning requirements, the occ, the federal reserve and the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. all of these policies and other requirements could affect the company ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require it to provide capital assistance to its u.s. bank subsidiaries under circumstances which the company would not otherwise decide to do so. liquidity standards. in addition to capital regulations, the u.s. banking agencies and the basel committee have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. the basel committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the liquidity coverage ratio ( lcr ) and the net stable funding ratio ( nsfr ). the lcr requirements issued by the u.s. banking regulators ( u.s. lcr ) apply to the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries. for more information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources regulatory liquidity framework in part ii, item 7. systemic risk regime. the dodd-frank act established a systemic risk regime to which bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the company, are subject. under rules issued by the federal reserve to implement certain requirements of the dodd-frank act enhanced prudential standards, such bank holding companies must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. institutions also must comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements. the federal reserve has proposed rules that would establish single counterparty credit limits and create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses. the federal reserve also has the 4 table of contents ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. for example, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt requirement in part ii, item 7. under the systemic risk regime, if the federal reserve or the financial stability oversight council determines that a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a grave threat to u.s. financial stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or offer financial products and required to terminate activities and dispose of assets. see also capital standards and liquidity standards herein and resolution and recovery planning below. resolution and recovery planning. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. the company preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in its 2015 resolution plan, submitted on july 1, 2015, is a single-point-of-entry ( spoe ) strategy. on august 5, 2014, the federal reserve and the fdic notified the company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans needed to be addressed in their 2015 resolution plans. if the federal reserve and the fdic both were to determine that the company 2015 resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the company does not cure the plan deficiencies, the company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or, after a two-year period, the company may be required to divest assets or operations. further, the company is required to submit an annual recovery plan to the federal reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress. certain of the company domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. for example, msbna must submit to the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes msbna strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of msbna. the occ has also proposed guidelines that would require insured national banks with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, which include msbna, to submit an annual recovery plan to the occ. in addition, under the dodd-frank act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the company and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in title ii of the dodd-frank act with the fdic being appointed as receiver, provided that certain procedures are met, including certain extraordinary financial distress and systematic risk determinations by the u.s. treasury secretary in consultation with the u.s. president. the orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. if the company were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the fdic would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove officers and directors responsible for the company failure and to appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign the company assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among the company creditors, including by treating certain creditors within the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. the fdic has been developing an spoe strategy that could be used to implement the orderly liquidation authority and in december 2013 issued a public notice inviting comments on the proposed strategy. regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. for example, the federal reserve has issued a proposed rule that would require top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. global systemically important banks ( g-sibs ), including the company, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources to be recapitalized under an spoe resolution strategy. (the proposed rule also imposes additional requirements. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation 5 table of contents liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt requirements in part ii, item 7.) in addition, on november 12, 2015, in order to facilitate an spoe resolution strategy, the company and certain of its subsidiaries, together with certain other g-sibs, agreed to adhere to the international swaps and derivatives association ( isda ) 2015 universal resolution stay protocol (the protocol ), which applies to over-the-counter ( otc ) derivative transactions entered into among the adhering parties under isda master agreements and securities financing transactions governed by specified securities financing transaction agreements. the protocol overrides certain cross-default rights and certain other default rights related to the entry of an adhering party or certain of its affiliates into certain resolution proceedings. the federal reserve is expected to promulgate regulations implementing and possibly expanding portions of, and the parties subject to, the protocol. u.s. bank subsidiaries. u.s. banking institutions. msbna, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products. it also conducts certain foreign exchange activities. mspbna offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker-dealer, morgan stanley smith barney llc ( mssb llc ). mspbna also offers certain deposit products, as well as prime brokerage custody services. both msbna and mspbna are fdic-insured national banks subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the occ. they are both subject to the occ risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large national bank risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by the bank board of directors. prompt corrective action. the federal deposit insurance corporation improvement act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take prompt corrective action ( pca ) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. current pca regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as msbna or mspbna and not to their parent holding companies. the federal reserve is, however, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. under the systemic risk regime, as described above, the company also would become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. in addition, bank holding companies, such as the company, are required to serve as a source of strength to their u.s. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress. transactions with affiliates. the company u.s. bank subsidiaries are subject to sections 23a and 23b of the federal reserve act, which impose restrictions on covered transactions with any affiliates. covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured banks with an affiliate. these restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that the company u.s. bank subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates. other provisions set collateral requirements and require all such transactions to be made on market terms. derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between the company u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates are subject to these restrictions. the federal reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more recent restrictions. in addition, the volcker rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) the company or any of its affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which the company or any of its affiliates serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor or other covered funds organized and offered by the company or any of its affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the volcker rule. fdic regulation. an fdic-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the fdic in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. as commonly controlled fdic-insured depository institutions, each of msbna and mspbna could be responsible for any loss to the fdic from the failure of the other. in addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of fdic insurance. under the dodd-frank act, some of the restoration of the fdic reserve fund must be paid for 6 table of contents exclusively by large depository institutions, including msbna, and fdic deposit insurance assessments are calculated using a methodology that generally results in a lower charge for banks that are mostly funded by deposits. institutional securities and wealth management. broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. the company primary u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, morgan stanley &amp; co. llc ( ms&amp;co. ) and mssb llc, are registered broker-dealers with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the financial industry regulatory authority, inc. ( finra ), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers funds and securities, capital structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. morgan stanley broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. mssb llc is also a registered investment adviser with the sec. mssb llc relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisors under the investment advisers act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities laws. these laws and regulations generally grant the sec and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address non-compliance, including the power to restrict or limit mssb llc from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. the company is subject to various regulations that affect broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. for example, under the dodd-frank act, the sec is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers, although the sec has not yet acted on this authority. as a separate matter, in april 2015, the u.s. department of labor issued a proposed rule under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 that, when finalized, would subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and may limit certain transactions and activities involving retirement accounts. these developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities. margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the federal reserve restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under finra and other self-regulatory organization rules. in many cases, the company broker-dealer subsidiaries margin policies are more stringent than these rules. as registered u.s. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the company are subject to the sec net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. these rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. see also financial holding company consolidated supervision and financial holding company liquidity standards above. rules of finra and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations assets. compliance with regulatory capital requirements may limit the company operations requiring the intensive use of capital. such requirements restrict the company ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a 7 table of contents significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the company ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. in addition, such rules may require the company to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules. regulation of futures activities and certain commodities activities. ms&amp;co., as a futures commission merchant, and mssb llc, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ), the national futures association (the nfa ), a registered futures association, cme group, and various commodity futures exchanges. ms&amp;co. and mssb llc and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the nfa in various capacities. rules and regulations of the cftc, nfa and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, customer protections, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading. the company commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the u.s. and abroad. intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by u.s. federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. see also financial holding company scope of permitted activities above. derivatives regulation. under the u.s. regulatory regime for swaps and security-based swaps (collectively, swaps ) implemented pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is subject to regulations including, among others, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of swaps. while the cftc has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect, the sec has not yet adopted a number of its swaps regulations. the dodd-frank act also requires the registration of swap dealers with the cftc and security-based swap dealers with the sec (collectively, swaps entities ). certain of the company subsidiaries have registered with the cftc as swap dealers and will in the future be required to register with the sec as security-based swap dealers. swaps entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the swaps activities for which they are registered, including capital requirements, margin requirements for uncleared swaps and comprehensive business conduct rules. the specific parameters of some of these requirements for swaps have been and continue to be developed through the cftc, sec and bank regulator rulemakings. in october 2015, the federal banking regulators issued a final rule establishing minimum uncleared swap margin requirements for swaps entities that they prudentially regulate, which includes msbna. the rule requires the exchange of initial and variation margin for uncleared swaps with certain types of counterparties. similarly, in december 2015, the cftc issued a final rule establishing uncleared swap margin requirements for swap dealers that are not subject to regulation by the federal banking regulators, which includes morgan stanley capital services llc and morgan stanley &amp; co. international plc ( msip ). although the full impact of u.s. derivatives regulation on the company remains unclear, the company has already faced, and will continue to face, increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. complying with the swaps rules also has required, and will in the future require, the company to change its swaps businesses and has required, and will in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. compliance with swaps-related regulatory capital requirements may require the company to devote more capital to its swaps business. research. both u.s. and non-u.s. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions. finra adopted amendments to its equity research rules (effective december 2015) and adopted new rules for debt research (to be effective april 2016). new and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with u.s. federal and state regulators (to which the company is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures. non-u.s. regulation. the company institutional securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-u.s. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks 8 table of contents and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the company maintains an office. non-u.s. policy makers and regulators, including the european commission and european supervisory authorities (among others the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous market reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to the company european operations. certain morgan stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the u.s. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. for instance, the prudential regulation authority ( pra ), the financial conduct authority ( fca ) and several securities and futures exchanges in the united kingdom ( u.k. ), including the london stock exchange and ice futures europe, regulate the company activities in the u.k.; the bundesanstalt f&uuml;r finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the federal financial supervisory authority) and the deutsche b&ocirc;rse ag regulate its activities in the federal republic of germany; the financial services agency, the bank of japan, the japanese securities dealers association and several japanese securities and futures exchanges, regulate its activities in japan; the securities and futures commission of hong kong, the hong kong monetary authority and the hong kong exchanges and clearing limited regulate its operations in hong kong; and the monetary authority of singapore and the singapore exchange limited regulate its business in singapore. regulators in the u.k., e.u. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based capital, leverage capital, liquidity, banking structural reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain morgan stanley subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. for example, msip is subject to regulation and supervision by the pra with respect to prudential matters. as a prudential regulator, the pra seeks to promote the safety and soundness of the firms that it regulates and to minimize the adverse effects that such firms may have on the stability of the u.k. financial system. the pra has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards to pursue these objectives, including approvals of relevant regulatory models, as well as to bring public and non-public disciplinary actions against regulated firms to address noncompliance with such standards. msip is also regulated and supervised by the fca with respect to business conduct matters. european market infrastructure regulation introduces new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives. in addition, the e.u. bank recovery and resolution directive ( brrd ) has established a recovery and resolution framework for e.u. credit institutions and investment firms, including msip. e.u. member states were required to apply provisions implementing the brrd as of january 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions. new directives and regulations originally expected to apply from january 3, 2017 (currently with potential delay of one year) will introduce various trading and market infrastructure reforms in the e.u., subject to restrictions investment management. many of the subsidiaries engaged in the company asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the sec. many aspects of the company asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. these laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. in order to facilitate its asset management business, the company owns a registered u.s. broker-dealer, morgan stanley distribution, inc., which acts as distributor to the morgan stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by the company investment management business segment. in addition, certain affiliates of the company are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to cftc rules and other guidance, and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise. violations of the rules of the cftc, the nfa or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. see also institutional securities and wealth management broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation and institutional securities and wealth management regulation of futures activities and certain commodities activities above. 9 table of contents as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank act, the company asset management activities are subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, covered funds, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. many of these new requirements may increase the expenses associated with the company asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the company is able to generate for its asset management clients. see also financial holding company activities restrictions under the volcker rule. the company investment management business is also regulated outside the u.s. for example, the fca is the primary regulator of the company business in the u.k.; the financial services agency regulates the company business in japan; the hong kong securities and futures commission regulates the company business in hong kong; and the monetary authority of singapore regulates the company business in singapore. see also institutional securities and wealth management non-u.s. regulation herein. financial crimes program. the company financial crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports the company financial crime prevention efforts across all regions and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of the company anti-money laundering ( aml ), economic sanctions ( sanctions ) and anti-corruption programs. in the u.s. the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement aml programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. outside the u.s., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement aml programs. the company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable aml laws and regulations. regarding sanctions, the company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control ( ofac ), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to u.s. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and as applicable similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the united nations security council and the e.u. council. the company is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, in the jurisdictions in which it operates. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. the company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations. protection of client information. many aspects of the company businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the gramm-leach-bliley act and the fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 in the u.s., the e.u. data protection directive and various laws in asia, including the japanese personal information (protection) law, the hong kong personal data (protection) ordinance and the australian privacy act. the company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions. compensation practices and other regulation. the company compensation practices are subject to oversight by the federal reserve. in particular, the company is subject to the federal reserve guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations safety and soundness. the scope and content of 10 table of contents the federal reserve policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and the company expects that these policies will evolve over a number of years. the company is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the dodd-frank act, which may impact its compensation practices. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, among other things, federal regulators, including the federal reserve, must prescribe regulations to require covered financial institutions, including the company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the covered financial institution. in april 2011, seven federal agencies, including the federal reserve, jointly proposed an interagency rule implementing this requirement. further, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, in july 2015, the sec proposed rules that would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. the company compensation practices may also be impacted by regulations in other jurisdictions. the company compensation practices with respect to certain employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the company e.u. operations are subject to the crd iv and related e.u. and member state regulations, including, amongst others, a cap on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration and clawback arrangements in relation to variable remuneration paid in the past. in the u.k., the remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the remuneration codes in the pra and fca handbooks, including since january 1, 2014, provisions that implement the crd iv as well as additional u.k. requirements. for a discussion of certain risks relating to the company regulatory environment, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. executive officers of morgan stanley. the executive officers of morgan stanley and their ages and titles as of february 23, 2016 are set forth below. business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with sec rules. jeffrey s. brodsky (51) . executive vice president and chief human resources officer of morgan stanley (since january 2016). vice president and global head of human resources (january 2011 to december 2015). co-head of human resources (january 2010 to december 2011). head of morgan stanley smith barney human resources (june 2009 to january 2010). james p. gorman (57) . chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of morgan stanley (since january 2012). president and chief executive officer (january 2010 through december 2011) and member of the board of directors (since january 2010). co-president (december 2007 to december 2009) and co-head of strategic planning (october 2007 to december 2009). president and chief operating officer of wealth management (february 2006 to april 2008). eric f. grossman (49) . executive vice president and chief legal officer of morgan stanley (since january 2012). global head of legal (september 2010 to january 2012). global head of litigation (january 2006 to september 2010) and general counsel of the americas (may 2009 to september 2010). general counsel of wealth management (november 2008 to september 2010). partner at the law firm of davis polk &amp; wardwell llp (june 2001 to december 2005). keishi hotsuki (53) . executive vice president (since may 2014) and chief risk officer of morgan stanley (since may 2011). interim chief risk officer (january 2011 to may 2011) and head of market risk department (march 2008 to april 2014). director of mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities co., ltd. (since may 2010). global head of market risk management at merrill lynch (june 2005 to september 2007). colm kelleher (58) . president of morgan stanley (since january 2016). executive vice president (october 2007 to january 2016). president of institutional securities (january 2013 to january 2016). head of international (january 2011 to january 2016). co-president of institutional securities (january 2010 to december 2012). chief financial officer and co- 11 table of contents head of strategic planning (october 2007 to december 2009). head of global capital markets (february 2006 to october 2007). co-head of fixed income europe (may 2004 to february 2006). jonathan m. pruzan (47) . executive vice president and chief financial officer of morgan stanley (since may 2015). co-head of global financial institutions group (january 2010 to april 2015). co-head of north american financial institutions group m&amp;a (september 2007 to december 2009). head of the u.s. bank group (april 2005 to august 2007). james a. rosenthal (62) . executive vice president and chief operating officer of morgan stanley (since january 2011). head of corporate strategy (january 2010 to may 2011). chief operating officer of wealth management (january 2010 to august 2011). head of firmwide technology and operations of morgan stanley (march 2008 to january 2010). chief financial officer of tishman speyer (may 2006 to march 2008). 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect the company future results and strategic goals, see forward-looking statements immediately preceding part i, item 1 and return on equity target and effects of inflation and changes in interest and foreign exchange rates under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7. market risk. market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations have been in the past and may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. the value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees or carried interest) in respect of certain business. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. 13 table of contents holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through our institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to clients through various loans and lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact with on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and 14 table of contents compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated trading platforms has resulted in using increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. as a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud. nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo as well as mumbai, budapest, glasgow and baltimore. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems, monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. these threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. there can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. if one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational 15 table of contents damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. while many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. in addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management liquidity and funding risk in part ii, item 7a. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the u.s. and other geographic areas, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or our industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, including, for example, regulatory changes relating to total loss absorbing capacity requirements, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of third party support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements 16 table of contents associated with our institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody investor services and standard &amp; poor rating services. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources credit ratings incremental collateral or terminating payments upon potential future rating downgrade in part ii, item 7. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our u.s. bank subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economies. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. in particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. significant turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. this risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. it also includes compliance with aml and terrorist financing rules and regulations. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. 17 table of contents in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of financial market reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated and conducted. in particular, as a result of these reforms, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, new activities limitations, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, new resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new requirements for maintaining minimum amounts of external total loss-absorbing capacity and external long-term debt, new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. many of the changes required by these reforms could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, regulatory requirements that are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and, if adopted, may adversely affect us. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company is and will continue to be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. the application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the united states to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for the security holders of the company. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. in addition, provided that certain procedures are met, the company can be subject to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under title ii of the dodd-frank act with the fdic being appointed as receiver. the fdic power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the priority of creditor claims and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of the company unsecured debt. see business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. further, because both our resolution plan contemplates a single-point-of-entry ( spoe ) strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code and the fdic has proposed an spoe strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of an spoe strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. an spoe strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the company to certain subsidiaries in an effort to ensure that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy. although this strategy, whether applied pursuant to the company resolution plan or in a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an spoe strategy will not result in greater losses for holders of the company securities compared to a different resolution strategy for the firm. regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. for example, the federal reserve has issued a proposed rule that would require top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. g-sibs, including the company, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt ( total loss-absorbing capacity or tlac ) in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible tlac where the spoe strategy is used. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, 18 table of contents settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. we may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. we originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities. for additional information, see also note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. we currently have several legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. if there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses substantially in excess of our reserves. in addition, our reserves are based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. if those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially. our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and execution of transactions in several commodities, including metals, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, and other commodity products. in addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own electricity generating facilities in the u.s. and own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. in addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. although we have attempted to mitigate our environmental risks by, among other measures, selling or ceasing much of our prior petroleum storage and transportation activities and adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from 19 table of contents insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. the bhc act provides a grandfather exemption for activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. if the federal reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the bhc act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the bhc act. see also scope of permitted activities under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. we also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates. risk management. our risk management strategies, models and processes may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our risk management strategies, models and processes, including our use of various risk models for assessing market exposures and hedging strategies, stress testing and other analysis, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. as our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies, models and processes may not always adapt with those changes. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management judgment. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, many models we use are based on assumptions or inputs regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators and therefore cannot anticipate sudden, unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements, which could cause us to incur losses. 20 table of contents management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. for example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks and related strategies, models and processes, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a. competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. 21 table of contents international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition, divestiture and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to 22 table of contents new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 98 our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors. our results of operations have been in the past and may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. the value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees or carried interest) in respect of certain business. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. 13 table of contents holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. credit risk. credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through our institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to clients through various loans and lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact with on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1. operational risk. operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and 14 table of contents compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated trading platforms has resulted in using increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. as a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud. nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo as well as mumbai, budapest, glasgow and baltimore. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems, monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. these threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. there can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. if one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational 15 table of contents damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. while many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. in addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. liquidity and funding risk. liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management liquidity and funding risk in part ii, item 7a. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the u.s. and other geographic areas, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or our industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, including, for example, regulatory changes relating to total loss absorbing capacity requirements, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of third party support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements 16 table of contents associated with our institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody investor services and standard &amp; poor rating services. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources credit ratings incremental collateral or terminating payments upon potential future rating downgrade in part ii, item 7. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our u.s. bank subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economies. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. in particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. significant turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. legal, regulatory and compliance risk. legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. this risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. it also includes compliance with aml and terrorist financing rules and regulations. in today environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. 17 table of contents in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of financial market reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated and conducted. in particular, as a result of these reforms, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, new activities limitations, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, new resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new requirements for maintaining minimum amounts of external total loss-absorbing capacity and external long-term debt, new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, and comprehensive new derivatives regulation. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. many of the changes required by these reforms could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, regulatory requirements that are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and, if adopted, may adversely affect us. while there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the company is and will continue to be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future. the application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the united states to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for the security holders of the company. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. in addition, provided that certain procedures are met, the company can be subject to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under title ii of the dodd-frank act with the fdic being appointed as receiver. the fdic power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the priority of creditor claims and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of the company unsecured debt. see business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. further, because both our resolution plan contemplates a single-point-of-entry ( spoe ) strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code and the fdic has proposed an spoe strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of an spoe strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. an spoe strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the company to certain subsidiaries in an effort to ensure that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy. although this strategy, whether applied pursuant to the company resolution plan or in a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an spoe strategy will not result in greater losses for holders of the company securities compared to a different resolution strategy for the firm. regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. for example, the federal reserve has issued a proposed rule that would require top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. g-sibs, including the company, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt ( total loss-absorbing capacity or tlac ) in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible tlac where the spoe strategy is used. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, 18 table of contents settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. we may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. we originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities. for additional information, see also note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, competitive environment. we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. 21 table of contents international risk. we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. acquisition, divestiture and joint venture risk. we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to 22 table of contents new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. the company, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the sec regarding its periodic or current reports under the exchange act. there are no comments that remain unresolved that the company received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that the company believes are material. item 2. properties. the company has offices, operations and data centers located around the world. the company properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. the company believes the facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. the company principal offices include the following properties: location owned/ leased lease expiration approximate square footage as of december 31, 2015(1) u.s. locations 1585 broadway new york, new york (global headquarters and institutional securities headquarters) owned n/a 1,332,700 square feet 2000 westchester avenue purchase, new york (wealth management headquarters) owned n/a 597,400 square feet 522 fifth avenue new york, new york (investment management headquarters) owned n/a 571,800 square feet international locations 20 bank street london (london headquarters) leased 2038 546,500 square feet 1 austin road west kowloon (hong kong headquarters) leased 2019 499,900 square feet otemachi financial city south tower otemachi, chiyoda-ku (tokyo headquarters) leased 2028 245,600 square feet (1) the indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space leased by morgan stanley branch offices. 23 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings. in addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, the company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. the company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the company business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. the company future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period, given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the company. in many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible, or to estimate the amount of any loss. the company cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings or investigations will be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation. subject to the foregoing, the company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the company, although the outcome of such proceedings or investigations could be material to the company operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the company revenues or income for such period. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, the company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief and, while the company has identified below certain proceedings that the company believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material. residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters. regulatory and governmental matters. the company has received subpoenas and requests for information from certain federal and state regulatory and governmental entities, including among others various members of the rmbs working group of the financial fraud enforcement task force, such as the united states department of justice, civil division and several state attorney general offices, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related matters such as residential mortgage backed securities ( rmbs ), collateralized debt obligations ( cdos ), structured investment vehicles ( sivs ) and credit default swaps backed by or referencing mortgage pass-through certificates. these matters, some of which are in advanced stages, include, but are not limited to, investigations related to the company due diligence on the loans that it purchased for securitization, the company communications with ratings agencies, the company disclosures to investors, and the company handling of servicing and foreclosure related issues. 24 table of contents in may 2014, the california attorney general office ( caag ), which is one of the members of the rmbs working group, indicated that it has made certain preliminary conclusions that the company made knowing and material misrepresentations regarding rmbs and that it knowingly caused material misrepresentations to be made regarding the cheyne siv, which issued securities marketed to the california public employees retirement system. the caag has further indicated that it believes the company conduct violated california law and that it may seek treble damages, penalties and injunctive relief. the company does not agree with these conclusions and has presented defenses to them to the caag. in october 2014, the illinois attorney general office ( ilag ) sent a letter to the company alleging that the company knowingly made misrepresentations related to rmbs purchased by certain pension funds affiliated with the state of illinois and demanding that the company pay ilag approximately $88 million. the company and ilag reached an agreement to resolve the matter on february 10, 2016. on january 13, 2015, the new york attorney general office ( nyag ), which is also a member of the rmbs working group, indicated that it intends to file a lawsuit related to approximately 30 subprime securitizations sponsored by the company. nyag indicated that the lawsuit would allege that the company misrepresented or omitted material information related to the due diligence, underwriting and valuation of the loans in the securitizations and the properties securing them and indicated that its lawsuit would be brought under the martin act. the company and nyag reached an agreement to resolve the matter on february 10, 2016. on february 25, 2015, the company reached an agreement in principle with the united states department of justice, civil division and the united states attorney office for the northern district of california, civil division (collectively, the civil division ) to pay $2.6 billion to resolve certain claims that the civil division indicated it intended to bring against the company. that settlement was finalized on february 10, 2016. civil litigation. on december 23, 2009, the federal home loan bank of seattle filed a complaint against the company and another defendant in the superior court of the state of washington, styled federal home loan bank of seattle v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. the amended complaint, filed on september 28, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $233 million. the complaint raises claims under the washington state securities act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. by orders dated june 23, 2011 and july 18, 2011, the court denied defendants omnibus motion to dismiss plaintiff amended complaint and on august 15, 2011, the court denied the company individual motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on march 7, 2013, the court granted defendants motion to strike plaintiff demand for a jury trial. the defendants joint motions for partial summary judgment were denied on november 9, 2015. on march 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of san francisco filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california styled federal home loan bank of san francisco v. deutsche bank securities inc. et al. an amended complaint, filed on june 10, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $276 million. the complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and california law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on august 11, 2011, plaintiff federal securities law claims were dismissed with prejudice. on february 9, 2012, defendants demurrers with respect to all other claims were overruled. on december 20, 2013, plaintiff negligent misrepresentation claims were dismissed with prejudice. on july 15, 2010, the charles schwab corp. filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california, styled the charles schwab corp. v. bnp paribas securities corp., et al . the second amended complaint, filed on march 5, 2012, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to one of plaintiff subsidiaries of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts 25 table of contents containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff subsidiary by the company was approximately $180 million. the amended complaint raises claims under california law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on april 10, 2012, the company filed a demurrer to certain causes of action in the second amended complaint, which the court overruled on july 24, 2012. on november 24, 2014, plaintiff negligent misrepresentation claims were dismissed with prejudice. an initial trial of certain of plaintiff claims is scheduled to begin in july 2016. on july 15, 2010, china development industrial bank ( cdib ) filed a complaint against the company, styled china development industrial bank v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated et al ., which is pending in the supreme court of the state of new york, new york county ( supreme court of ny ). the complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the stack 2006-1 cdo. the complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the company misrepresented the risks of the stack 2006-1 cdo to cdib, and that the company knew that the assets backing the cdo were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with cdib. the complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that cdib alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of cdib obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs. on february 28, 2011, the court denied the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on october 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of chicago filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the circuit court of the state of illinois, styled federal home loan bank of chicago v. bank of america funding corporation et al . a corrected amended complaint was filed on april 8, 2011. the corrected amended complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans and asserts claims under illinois law. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the company at issue in the action was approximately $203 million. the complaint seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the corrected amended complaint on may 27, 2011, which was denied on september 19, 2012. on december 13, 2013, the court entered an order dismissing all claims related to one of the securitizations at issue. after that dismissal, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $78 million. on april 20, 2011, the federal home loan bank of boston filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the superior court of the commonwealth of massachusetts styled federal home loan bank of boston v. ally financial, inc. f/k/a gmac llc et al. an amended complaint was filed on june 29, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $385 million. the amended complaint raises claims under the massachusetts uniform securities act, the massachusetts consumer protection act and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on may 26, 2011, defendants removed the case to the united states district court for the district of massachusetts. the defendants motions to dismiss the amended complaint were granted in part and denied in part on september 30, 2013. on november 25, 2013, july 16, 2014, and may 19, 2015, respectively, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claims against the company with respect to three of the securitizations at issue. after these voluntary dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $332 million. on august 7, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-4sl against the company styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on august 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the complaint. 26 table of contents on august 8, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-14sl, morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2007-4sl against the company. the complaint is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc . and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on august 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 28, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx against the company styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., pending in the supreme court of ny. plaintiff filed an amended complaint on january 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. by order entered september 30, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on july 13, 2015, plaintiff perfected its appeal from the court september 30, 2014 decision. on december 14, 2012, royal park investments sa/nv filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. merrill lynch et al. on october 24, 2013, plaintiff filed a new complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. morgan stanley et al. , alleging that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $597 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, negligent misrepresentation, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. the plaintiff filed an amended complaint on december 1, 2015. on january 10, 2013, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-10sl against the company. the complaint is styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the company to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, and interest. on august 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 31, 2013, hsh nordbank ag and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled hsh nordbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $524 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on april 12, 2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on july 21, 2015. on august 19, 2015, the company filed a notice of appeal of the court decision, and on august 20, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a notice of cross-appeal. on august 25, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend their complaint. on may 3, 2013, plaintiffs in deutsche zentral-genossenschaftsbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. filed a complaint against the company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that 27 table of contents defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $644 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on june 10, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the complaint. the company perfected its appeal from that decision on june 12, 2015. on may 17, 2013, plaintiff in ikb international s.a. in liquidation, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiff was approximately $132 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on october 29, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss. all claims regarding four certificates were dismissed. after these dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company or sold to plaintiff by the company was approximately $116 million. on august 26, 2015, the company perfected its appeal from the court october 29, 2014 decision. on july 2, 2013, deutsche bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 (msac 2007-nc1) v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, as trustee for the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 v. morgan stanley abs capital i, inc. on february 3, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.25 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission and interest. on march 12, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on july 8, 2013, u.s. bank national association, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-2ax, by u.s. bank national association, solely in its capacity as trustee v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., and greenpoint mortgage funding, inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages and interest. on august 22, 2013, the company a filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on november 24, 2014. on august 26, 2013, a complaint was filed against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled phoenix light sf limited et al v. morgan stanley et al . the complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs, or their assignors, of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold to plaintiffs or their assignors by the company was approximately $344 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation and rescission based on mutual mistake and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages, punitive damages or alternatively rescission or rescissionary damages associated with the purchase of such certificates. the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on december 13, 2013, which the parties later agreed would be deemed to be directed at an amended complaint filed on june 17, 2014. on april 23, 2015, the court granted the company motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on may 21, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of that order. on november 6, 2013, deutsche bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley 28 table of contents abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 (msac 2007-nc3) v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, solely in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.3 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission, interest and costs. on december 16, 2013, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on december 30, 2013, wilmington trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-12, filed a complaint against the company. the matter is styled wilmington trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc et al. and is pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, interest and costs. on february 28, 2014, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on april 28, 2014, deutsche bank national trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley structured trust i 2007-1, filed a complaint against the company. the matter is styled deutsche bank national trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc and is pending in the united states district court for the southern district of new york ( sdny ). the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. on april 3, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 19, 2014, financial guaranty insurance company ( fgic ) filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled financial guaranty insurance company v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. et al. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the net interest margin securities ( nims ) in the trust breached various representations and warranties. fgic issued a financial guaranty policy with respect to certain notes that had an original balance of approximately $475 million. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the nim breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, reimbursement of certain payments made pursuant to the transaction documents, attorneys fees and interest. on november 24, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 23, 2014, fgic filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny styled financial guaranty insurance company v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. et al. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties and defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to induce fgic to issue a financial guaranty policy on certain classes of certificates that had an original balance of approximately $876 million. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential and punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. on november 24, 2014, the company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 23, 2015, deutsche bank national trust company, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the company styled deutsche bank national trust company solely in its capacity as trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust 2007-nc4 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., and morgan stanley abs capital i inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential, rescissory, equitable and punitive damages, attorneys fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. on october 20, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the company motion to dismiss the complaint. 29 table of contents commercial mortgage related matter. on january 25, 2011, the company was named as a defendant in the bank of new york mellon trust, national association v. morgan stanley mortgage capital, inc., a litigation pending in the sdny. the suit, brought by the trustee of a series of commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, alleges that the company breached certain representations and warranties with respect to an $81 million commercial mortgage loan that was originated and transferred to the trust by the company. the complaint seeks, among other things, to have the company repurchase the loan and pay additional monetary damages. on june 16, 2014, the court granted the company supplemental motion for summary judgment. on july 16, 2014, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal. currency related matters. regulatory and governmental matters. the company is responding to a number of regulatory and governmental inquiries both in the united states and abroad related to its foreign exchange business. in addition, on june 29, 2015, the company and a number of other financial institutions were named as respondents in a proceeding before brazil council for economic defense related to alleged anticompetitive activity in the foreign exchange market for the brazilian real. class action litigation. beginning in december 2013, several foreign exchange dealers (including the company and certain affiliates) were named as defendants in multiple purported antitrust class actions most of which have now been consolidated into a single proceeding in the united states district court for the southern district of new york styled in re foreign exchange benchmark rates antitrust litigation . on july 16, 2015, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint generally alleging that defendants engaged in a conspiracy to fix, maintain or make artificial prices for key benchmark rates, to manipulate bid/ask spreads, and, by their behavior in the over-the-counter market, to thereby cause corresponding manipulation in the foreign exchange futures market. plaintiffs seek declaratory relief as well as treble damages in an unspecified amount. defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on november 30, 2015. on september 11, 2015, several foreign exchange dealers (including the company and an affiliate) were named as defendants in a purported class action filed in the ontario superior court of justice styled christopher staines v. royal bank of canada, et al. the plaintiff has made allegations similar to those in the in re foreign exchange benchmark rates antitrust litigation and seeks c$1 billion as well as c$50 million in punitive damages. on september 16, 2015, a parallel proceeding was initiated in quebec superior court styled christine beland v. royal bank of canada, et al. based on similar allegations and seeking c$100 million as well as c$50 million in punitive damages. wealth management related matters. the company is currently defending itself in an ongoing arbitration styled lynnda l. speer, as personal representative of the estate of roy m. speer, et al. v. morgan stanley smith barney llc, et al. , which is pending before a financial industry regulatory authority arbitration panel in the state of florida. plaintiffs assert claims for excessive trading, unauthorized use of discretion, undue influence, negligence and negligent supervision, constructive fraud, abuse of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment and violations of several florida statutes in connection with brokerage accounts owned by a former high-net worth wealth management client who is now deceased. plaintiffs are seeking approximately $475 million in disgorgement, compensatory damages, statutory damages, punitive damages and treble damages under various factual and legal theories. the following matters were terminated during or following the quarter ended december 31, 2015: on january 20, 2012, sealink funding limited filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled sealink funding limited v. morgan stanley, et al. a second amended complaint, filed on march 20, 2013, alleged that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold by the company was approximately $507 million. on april 18, 2014, the court granted the company motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. the dismissal was affirmed on appeal on november 12, 2015. 30 table of contents on january 25, 2012, dexia sa/nv and certain of its affiliated entities filed a complaint against the company in the supreme court of ny, styled dexia sa/nv et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. an amended complaint was filed on may 24, 2012 and alleged that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the company and/or sold to plaintiffs by the company was approximately $626 million. on october 16, 2013, the court granted the defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint. the dismissal was affirmed on appeal on january 12, 2016. on april 25, 2012, the prudential insurance company of america and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the superior court of the state of new jersey, styled the prudential insurance company of america, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. on october 16, 2012, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. the amended complaint alleged that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company was approximately $1.073 billion. the amended complaint raises claims under the new jersey uniform securities law, as well as common law claims of negligent misrepresentation, fraud, fraudulent inducement, equitable fraud, aiding and abetting fraud, and violations of the new jersey rico statute, and includes a claim for treble damages. on january 8, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation. on august 10, 2012, the fdic, as receiver for colonial bank, filed a complaint against the company and other defendants in the circuit court of montgomery, alabama styled federal deposit insurance corporation as receiver for colonial bank v. citigroup mortgage loan trust inc. et al. on january 15, 2014, the fdic, as receiver for united western bank filed a complaint against the company and others in the district court of the state of colorado, styled federal deposit insurance corporation, as receiver for united western bank v. banc of america funding corp., et al. the complaints in those cases asserted that the company made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale of mortgage pass-through certificates purchased by colonial bank and united western bank, respectively. on january 28, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle both actions. on august 5, 2013, landesbank baden-w&uuml;rttemberg and two affiliates filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled landesbank baden-w&uuml;rttemberg et al. v. morgan stanley et al. the complaint alleged that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs was approximately $50 million. on january 20, 2016, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation. on august 16, 2013, the plaintiff in national credit union administration board v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated, et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the united states district court for the district of kansas. on september 23, 2013, the plaintiff in national credit union administration board v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. filed a complaint against the company and certain affiliates in the sdny. the complaints alleged that defendants made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts in the sale to the plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates issued by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the company to plaintiffs in the matters was approximately $567 million and $417 million, respectively. the complaints alleged violations of federal and various state securities laws and sought, among other things, rescissionary and compensatory damages. on november 23, 2015, the parties reached an agreement to settle both matters. on september 16, 2014, the virginia attorney general office filed a civil lawsuit, styled commonwealth of virginia ex rel. integra rec llc v. barclays capital inc., et al. , against the company and several other defendants in the circuit court of the city of richmond related to rmbs. the lawsuit alleged that the company and the other defendants knowingly made misrepresentations and omissions related to the loans backing rmbs purchased by the virginia retirement system. the complaint asserts claims under the virginia fraud against taxpayers act, as well as common law claims of actual and constructive fraud, and seeks, among other things, treble damages and civil penalties. on january 6, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation. an order dismissing the action with prejudice was entered on january 28, 2016. 31 table of contents matters related to the cds market. on july 1, 2013, the european commission ( ec ) issued a statement of objections ( so ) addressed to twelve financial firms (including the company), the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. ( isda ) and markit group limited ( markit ) and various affiliates alleging that, between 2006 and 2009, the recipients breached european union competition law by taking and refusing to take certain actions in an effort to prevent the development of exchange traded credit default swap ( cds ) products. the company and the other recipients of the so filed a response to the so on january 21, 2014, and attended oral hearings before the ec during the period may 12-19, 2014. on december 4, 2015, the ec announced that it had closed its antitrust investigation into the twelve financial firms, including the company. beginning in may 2013, twelve financial firms (including the company), as well as isda and markit, were named as defendants in multiple purported antitrust class actions consolidated into a single proceeding in the sdny styled in re: credit default swaps antitrust litigation . plaintiffs alleged that defendants violated united states antitrust laws from 2008 to present in connection with their alleged efforts to prevent the development of exchange traded cds products. the complaints sought, among other relief, certification of a class of plaintiffs who purchased cds from defendants in the united states, treble damages and injunctive relief. on september 30, 2015, the company reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle the litigation. the settlement received preliminary court approval on october 29, 2015, and is subject to final court approval. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 32 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. morgan stanley common stock trades under the symbol ms on the new york stock exchange. as of february 17, 2016, the company had 68,615 holders of record; however, the company believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number. the table below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of the company common stock as reported by bloomberg financial markets and the amount of dividends declared per common share by its board of directors for such quarter. low sale price high sale price dividends declared per common share 2015: fourth quarter $ 30.15 $ 35.74 $ 0.15 third quarter $ 30.40 $ 41.04 $ 0.15 second quarter $ 35.36 $ 40.26 $ 0.15 first quarter $ 33.72 $ 39.15 $ 0.10 2014: fourth quarter $ 31.35 $ 39.19 $ 0.10 third quarter $ 31.12 $ 36.44 $ 0.10 second quarter $ 28.31 $ 32.82 $ 0.10 first quarter $ 28.78 $ 33.52 $ 0.05 33 table of contents the table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the company of its common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended december 31, 2015. issuer purchases of equity securities (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs(1) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs month #1 (october 1, 2015-october 31, 2015) share repurchase program(2) 2,448,000 $ 32.17 2,448,000 $ 1,796 employee transactions(3) 83,738 $ 32.06 month #2 (november 1, 2015-november 30, 2015) share repurchase program(2) 7,985,128 $ 33.99 7,985,128 $ 1,525 employee transactions(3) 243,334 $ 34.58 month #3 (december 1, 2015-december 31, 2015) share repurchase program(2) 8,210,166 $ 33.47 8,210,166 $ 1,250 employee transactions(3) 72,712 $ 33.87 quarter ended at december 31, 2015 share repurchase program(2) 18,643,294 $ 33.52 18,643,294 $ 1,250 employee transactions(3) 399,784 $ 33.92 (1) share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the company deems appropriate and may be suspended at any time. (2) the company board of directors has authorized the repurchase of the company outstanding stock under a share repurchase program (the share repurchase program ). the share repurchase program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as stock-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. the share repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date. share repurchases by the company are subject to regulatory approval. in march 2015, the company received no objection from the federal reserve to repurchase up to $3.1 billion of the company outstanding common stock during the period that began april 1, 2015 through june 30, 2016 under the company 2015 capital plan. during the quarter ended december 31, 2015, the company repurchased approximately $625 million of the company outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program. for further information, see liquidity and capital resources capital management in part ii, item 7. (3) includes shares acquired by the company in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligations on stock-based awards and the exercise price of stock options granted under the company stock-based compensation plans. *** 34 table of contents stock performance graph. the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of the company common stock, the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index ( s&amp;p 500 ) and the s&amp;p 500 financials index ( s5finl ) for the last five years. the graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on december 31, 2010 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. this graph does not forecast future performance of the company common stock. cumulative total return december 31, 2010 - december 31, 2015 ms s&amp;p 500 s5finl 12/31/2010 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 $ 100.00 12/31/2011 $ 56.07 $ 102.10 $ 82.94 12/31/2012 $ 71.73 $ 118.44 $ 106.78 12/31/2013 $ 118.60 $ 156.78 $ 144.79 12/31/2014 $ 148.35 $ 178.22 $ 166.76 12/31/2015 $ 123.50 $ 180.67 $ 164.15 35 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. morgan stanley selected financial data (dollars in millions, except share and per share data) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 income statement data: revenues: total non-interest revenues $ 32,062 $ 32,540 $ 31,715 $ 26,383 $ 31,953 interest income 5,835 5,413 5,209 5,692 7,234 interest expense 2,742 3,678 4,431 5,897 6,883 net interest 3,093 1,735 778 (205 ) 351 net revenues 35,155 34,275 32,493 26,178 32,304 non-interest expenses: compensation and benefits 16,016 17,824 16,277 15,615 16,325 other 10,644 12,860 11,658 9,967 9,792 total non-interest expenses 26,660 30,684 27,935 25,582 26,117 income from continuing operations before income taxes 8,495 3,591 4,558 596 6,187 provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2,200 (90 ) 902 (161 ) 1,491 income from continuing operations 6,295 3,681 3,656 757 4,696 discontinued operations: income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (23 ) (19 ) (72 ) (48 ) (170 ) provision for (benefit from) income taxes (7 ) (5 ) (29 ) (7 ) (119 ) income (loss) from discontinued operations (16 ) (14 ) (43 ) (41 ) (51 ) net income 6,279 3,667 3,613 716 4,645 net income applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests(1) 222 124 net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests(1) 152 200 459 524 535 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 6,127 $ 3,467 $ 2,932 $ 68 $ 4,110 preferred stock dividends and other 456 315 277 98 2,043 earnings (loss) applicable to morgan stanley common shareholders(2) $ 5,671 $ 3,152 $ 2,655 $ (30 ) $ 2,067 amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income from continuing operations $ 6,143 $ 3,481 $ 2,975 $ 138 $ 4,168 income (loss) from discontinued operations (16 ) (14 ) (43 ) (70 ) (58 ) net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 6,127 $ 3,467 $ 2,932 $ 68 $ 4,110 36 table of contents 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 per share data: earnings (loss) per basic common share(3): income from continuing operations $ 2.98 $ 1.65 $ 1.42 $ 0.02 $ 1.28 income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (0.03 ) (0.04 ) (0.03 ) earnings (loss) per basic common share $ 2.97 $ 1.64 $ 1.39 $ (0.02 ) $ 1.25 earnings (loss) per diluted common share(3): income from continuing operations $ 2.91 $ 1.61 $ 1.38 $ 0.02 $ 1.27 income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (0.02 ) (0.04 ) (0.04 ) earnings (loss) per diluted common share $ 2.90 $ 1.60 $ 1.36 $ (0.02 ) $ 1.23 book value per common share(4) $ 35.24 $ 33.25 $ 32.24 $ 30.70 $ 31.42 dividends declared per common share 0.55 0.35 0.20 0.20 0.20 average common shares outstanding(2): basic 1,909,116,527 1,923,805,397 1,905,823,882 1,885,774,276 1,654,708,640 diluted 1,952,815,453 1,970,535,560 1,956,519,738 1,918,811,270 1,675,271,669 balance sheet and other operating data: trading assets $ 228,280 $ 256,801 $ 280,744 $ 267,603 $ 275,353 loans(5) 85,759 66,577 42,874 29,046 15,369 total assets 787,465 801,510 832,702 780,960 749,898 total deposits 156,034 133,544 112,379 83,266 65,662 long-term borrowings 153,768 152,772 153,575 169,571 184,234 morgan stanley shareholders equity 75,182 70,900 65,921 62,109 62,049 return on average common equity(6) 8.5% 4.8% 4.3% n/m 3.8% n/m not meaningful. (1) reflects 51% ownership of the retail securities joint venture between the company and citigroup inc. up to september 17, 2012, 65% up to june 28, 2013 and 100% thereafter (see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8). (2) amounts shown are used to calculate earnings (loss) per basic and diluted common share. (3) for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share, see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, fee-based client assets. wealth management earns fees based on a contractual percentage of fee-based client assets related to certain account types that are offered to wealth management clients. these fees, which the company records in the asset management, distribution and administrative fees line on its income statement, are earned based on the client assets in the specific account types in which the client participates and are generally not driven by asset class. for most account types, fees are billed in the first month of each quarter based on the related client assets as of the end of the prior quarter. across the account types, the fees will vary based on both the distinct services provided within each account type and on the level of household assets under supervision in wealth management. 59 table of contents fee-based client assets activity and average fee rate by account type. at december 31, 2014 inflows outflows market impact at december 31, 2015 average for the year ended december 31, 2015 fee rate(1) (dollars in billions) (in bps) separately managed accounts(2) $ 285 $ 42 $ (32 ) $ (12 ) $ 283 34 unified managed accounts 93 29 (14 ) (3 ) 105 113 mutual fund advisory 31 3 (6 ) (3 ) 25 121 representative as advisor 119 29 (25 ) (8 ) 115 89 representative as portfolio manager 241 58 (38 ) (9 ) 252 104 subtotal $ 769 $ 161 $ (115 ) $ (35 ) $ 780 76 cash management 16 9 (10 ) 15 6 total fee-based client assets $ 785 $ 170 $ (125 ) $ (35 ) $ 795 74 at december 31, 2013 inflows outflows market impact at december 31, 2014 average for the year ended december 31, 2014 fee rate(1) (dollars in billions) (in bps) separately managed accounts(2) $ 260 $ 41 $ (31 ) $ 15 $ 285 35 unified managed accounts 78 24 (11 ) 2 93 116 mutual fund advisory 34 5 (8 ) 31 121 representative as advisor 111 30 (23 ) 1 119 90 representative as portfolio manager 201 60 (28 ) 8 241 106 subtotal $ 684 $ 160 $ (101 ) $ 26 $ 769 77 cash management 13 12 (9 ) 16 6 total fee-based client assets $ 697 $ 172 $ (110 ) $ 26 $ 785 75 at december 31, 2012 inflows outflows market impact/ other (3) at december 31, 2013 average for the year ended december 31, 2013 fee rate(1) (dollars in billions) (in bps) separately managed accounts(2) $ 195 $ 43 $ (32 ) $ 54 $ 260 37 unified managed accounts 61 19 (10 ) 8 78 120 mutual fund advisory 31 5 (6 ) 4 34 121 representative as advisor 94 28 (21 ) 10 111 91 representative as portfolio manager 160 51 (25 ) 15 201 109 subtotal $ 541 $ 146 $ (94 ) $ 91 $ 684 78 cash management 13 6 (6 ) 13 6 total fee-based client assets $ 554 $ 152 $ (100 ) $ 91 $ 697 77 bps basis points. (1) average fee rate is for the year ended december 31, 2015, december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, respectively. (2) includes non-custody account values reflecting prior quarter-end balances due to a lag in the reporting of asset values by third-party custodians. (3) effective in 2013, client assets include certain additional non-custodied assets as a result of the completion of the platform conversion between the company and citi. inflows include new accounts, account transfers, deposits, dividends and interest. outflows include closed or terminated accounts, account transfers, withdrawals and client fees. market impact includes realized and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio investments. 60 table of contents separately managed accounts accounts by which third-party asset managers are engaged to manage clients assets with investment decisions made by the asset manager. one third-party asset manager strategy can be held per account. unified managed accounts accounts that provide the client with the ability to combine separately managed accounts, mutual funds and exchange traded funds all in one aggregate account. unified managed accounts can be client-directed, financial advisor-directed or company-directed (with directed referring to the investment direction or decision/discretion/power of attorney). mutual fund advisory accounts that give the client the ability to systematically allocate assets across a wide range of mutual funds. investment decisions are made by the client. representative as advisor accounts where the investment decisions must be approved by the client and the financial advisor must obtain approval each time a change is made to the account or its investments. representative as portfolio manager accounts where a financial advisor has discretion (contractually approved by the client) to make ongoing investment decisions without the client approval for each individual change. cash management accounts where the financial advisor provides discretionary cash management services to institutional clients whereby securities or proceeds are invested and reinvested in accordance with the client investment criteria. generally, the portfolio will be invested in short-term fixed income and cash equivalent investments. 61 table of contents investment management income statement information % change from prior year: 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 (dollars in millions) revenues: investment banking $ 1 $ 5 $ 11 (80)% (55)% trading (1 ) (19 ) 41 95% n/m investments 249 587 1,056 (58)% (44)% commissions and fees 1 n/m n/m asset management, distribution and administration fees 2,049 2,049 1,920 7% other 32 106 32 (70)% n/m total non-interest revenues 2,331 2,728 3,060 (15)% (11)% interest income 2 2 9 (78)% interest expense 18 18 10 80% net interest (16 ) (16 ) (1 ) n/m net revenues 2,315 2,712 3,059 (15)% (11)% compensation and benefits 954 1,213 1,189 (21)% 2% non-compensation expenses 869 835 862 4% (3)% total non-interest expenses 1,823 2,048 2,051 (11)% income from continuing operations before income taxes 492 664 1,008 (26)% (34)% provision for income taxes 128 207 307 (38)% (33)% income from continuing operations 364 457 701 (20)% (35)% discontinued operations: income from discontinued operations before income taxes 1 7 9 (86)% (22)% provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2 (100)% n/m income from discontinued operations 1 5 9 (80)% (44)% net income 365 462 710 (21)% (35)% net income applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 19 91 182 (79)% (50)% net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 346 $ 371 $ 528 (7)% (30)% amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income from continuing operations $ 345 $ 366 $ 519 (6)% (29)% income from discontinued operations 1 5 9 (80)% (44)% net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 346 $ 371 $ 528 (7)% (30)% n/m not meaningful. 62 table of contents 2015 compared with 2014. net revenues. investments. investments of $249 million in 2015 decreased 58% from the prior year reflecting the reversal of previously accrued carried interest associated with asia private equity and additional net markdowns on principal investments. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees were unchanged from the prior year as the impact of positive net flows was offset by a shift in the asset class mix from equity and fixed income products to liquidity products, (see statistical data herein). other. other revenues of $32 million in 2015 decreased 70% from the prior year due to lower revenues associated with the company minority investment in certain third-party investment managers. non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses of $1,823 million in 2015 decreased 11% from the prior year primarily due to lower compensation and benefit expenses partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses. compensation and benefits expenses decreased primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in deferred compensation associated with carried interest and a decrease in the level of incentive compensation in 2015 (see also supplemental financial information and disclosures discretionary incentive compensation herein). non-compensation expenses increased primarily due to higher brokerage and clearing, professional services, resulting from higher consulting and legal fees and information processing and communications expenses. 2014 compared with 2013. trading. trading losses of $19 million in 2014 compared with gains of $41 million in 2013 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the company. investments. investments of $587 million in 2014 decreased 44% from the prior year primarily related to lower net investment gains, lower carried interest in the merchant banking and real estate investing businesses and lower gains from investments in the company employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. 2014 results were also negatively impacted by the deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the company. asset management, distribution and administration fees. asset management, distribution and administration fees of $2,049 million in 2014 increased 7% from the prior year primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues as a result of higher average assets under management ( aum ), (see statistical data herein). other. other revenues of $106 million in 2014 increased from $32 million in 2013 primarily due to higher revenues associated with the company minority investment in certain third-party investment managers and a $17 million gain on sale of a retail property space. 63 table of contents non-interest expenses. non-interest expenses of $2,048 million were essentially unchanged from 2013. compensation and benefits expenses increased due to the 2014 compensation actions and increases in salaries partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments (see also supplemental financial information and disclosures discretionary incentive compensation herein). non-compensation expenses decreased primarily due to an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in 2013 and the result of lower consumption taxes in the european union. other items. nonredeemable noncontrolling interests. nonredeemable noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds sponsored by the company. investment gains (losses) associated with nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in these consolidated funds were $14 million, $104 million and $151 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. nonredeemable noncontrolling interests decreased in 2015 primarily due to the deconsolidation of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the company in the second quarter 2015. statistical data. assets under management or supervision and average fee rate by asset class. at december 31, 2014 inflows (1) outflows distributions market impact foreign currency impact at december 31, 2015 average for the year ended december 31, 2015 aum fee rate (dollars in billions) (in bps) traditional asset management: equity $ 141 $ 33 $ (44 ) $ $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ 126 $ 136 70 fixed income 65 21 (23 ) (1 ) (2 ) 60 63 32 liquidity 128 1,259 (1,238 ) 149 136 9 alternatives(2) 36 4 (3 ) (1 ) 36 36 61 managed futures 3 3 3 111 total traditional asset management 373 1,317 (1,308 ) (1 ) (3 ) (4 ) 374 374 41 merchant banking and real estate investing(2) 30 6 (1 ) (5 ) 2 32 31 106 total assets under management or supervision $ 403 $ 1,323 $ (1,309 ) $ (6 ) $ (1 ) $ (4 ) $ 406 $ 405 46 shares of minority stake assets 7 8 7 64 table of contents at december 31, 2013 market impact foreign currency impact at december 31, 2014 average for the year ended december 31, 2014 inflows outflows distributions aum fee rate (dollars in billions) (in bps) traditional asset management: equity $ 140 $ 33 $ (34 ) $ (1 ) $ 5 $ (2 ) $ 141 $ 145 69 fixed income 60 26 (20 ) 1 (2 ) 65 63 32 liquidity 112 963 (945 ) (2 ) 128 119 8 alternatives(2) 31 6 (2 ) 1 36 34 65 managed futures 4 (1 ) 3 3 122 total traditional asset management 347 1,028 (1,002 ) (1 ) 5 (4 ) 373 364 43 merchant banking and real estate investing(2) 30 8 (7 ) (2 ) 1 30 30 104 total assets under management or supervision $ 377 $ 1,036 $ (1,009 ) $ (3 ) $ 6 $ (4 ) $ 403 $ 394 47 shares of minority stake assets 6 7 7 at december 31, 2012 market impact foreign currency impact at december 31, 2013 average for the year ended december 31, 2013 inflows outflows distributions aum fee rate (dollars in billions) (in bps) traditional asset management: equity $ 120 $ 29 $ (30 ) $ $ 22 $ (1 ) $ 140 $ 130 65 fixed income 62 27 (27 ) (2 ) 60 61 34 liquidity 100 742 (730 ) 112 104 10 alternatives(2) 27 5 (2 ) (1 ) 2 31 29 65 managed futures 5 (1 ) 4 5 125 total traditional asset management 314 803 (790 ) (1 ) 24 (3 ) 347 329 43 merchant banking and real estate investing(2) 29 5 (3 ) (3 ) 2 30 29 96 total assets under management or supervision $ 343 $ 808 $ (793 ) $ (4 ) $ 26 $ (3 ) $ 377 $ 358 47 shares of minority stake assets 5 6 6 bps basis points. (1) includes $4.6 billion related to the transfer of certain equity portfolio managers and their portfolios from the wealth management business segment to the investment management business segment. (2) assets under management or supervision for merchant banking and real estate investing and alternatives reflect the basis on which management fees are earned. this calculation excludes aum where no management fees are earned or where the fair value of these assets, including lending commitments, differs from the basis on which management fees are earned. including these assets, aum at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 for merchant banking and real estate investing were $44 billion and $42 billion, respectively, and for alternatives were $39 billion and $39 billion, respectively. inflows represent investments or commitments from new and existing clients in new or existing investment products, including reinvestments of client dividends and increases in invested capital. excludes the impact of exchanges occurring whereby a client changes positions within the same asset class. outflows represent redemptions from clients funds, transition of funds from the committed capital period to the invested capital period and decreases in invested capital. excludes the impact of exchanges occurring whereby a client changes positions within the same asset class. 65 table of contents distributions represent decreases in invested capital due to returns of capital after the investment period of a fund. it also includes fund dividends for which the client has not elected to reinvest. market impact includes realized and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio investments. this excludes any funds where market impact does not impact management fees. foreign currency impact reflects foreign currency changes for non-u.s. dollar denominated funds. average fee rate based on asset management and administration fees, net of waivers. it excludes performance-based fees and other non-management fees. for certain non-u.s. funds, it includes the portion of advisory fees that the advisor collects on behalf of third-party distributors. the payment of those fees to the distributor is included in non-compensation expenses in the consolidated statements of income. alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds. shares of minority stake assets represent the investment management business segment proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake. 66 table of contents supplemental financial information and disclosures. legal. the company incurred legal expenses of $563 million in 2015, $3,364 million in 2014 and $1,941 million in 2013. legal expenses are included in other expenses in the consolidated statements of income. legal expenses incurred in 2015 were primarily related to increases in reserves for the settlement of a credit default swap antitrust litigation matter and for legacy residential mortgage-backed securities matters. the legal expenses incurred in 2014 and 2013 were principally due to reserve additions and settlements related to legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis related matters, including in 2014 the company $2,600 million agreement with the united states department of justice, civil division, which was reached on february 25, 2015 and finalized on february 10, 2016 (see contingencies legal in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8). the company future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the company. u.s. bank subsidiaries. the company provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals, primarily through its u.s. bank subsidiaries. the lending activities in the institutional securities business segment include corporate lending activities, in which the company provides loans or lending commitments to certain corporate clients, and other lending activities. the lending activities in the wealth management business segment primarily include securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities and also include residential real estate loans. the company expects its lending activities to continue to grow through further penetration of the institutional securities and wealth management business segments client base. for a further discussion of credit risks, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk in item 7a. also see notes 7 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for additional information about loans and lending commitments, respectively. u.s. bank subsidiaries supplemental financial information excluding transactions with affiliated entities. at december 31, 2015 at december 31, 2014 (dollars in billions) u.s. bank subsidiaries assets $ 174.2 $ 151.2 u.s. bank subsidiaries investment securities portfolio(1) $ 57.9 $ 57.3 wealth management u.s. bank subsidiaries data: securities-based lending and other loans(2) $ 28.6 $ 22.0 residential real estate loans 20.9 15.8 total $ 49.5 $ 37.8 institutional securities u.s. bank subsidiaries data: corporate lending $ 10.0 $ 9.6 other lending(3): corporate loans $ 12.9 $ 8.0 wholesale real estate loans and other loans 8.9 8.6 total other loans $ 21.8 $ 16.6 total $ 31.8 $ 26.2 (1) the u.s. bank subsidiaries investment securities portfolio includes afs investment securities of $53.0 billion at december 31, 2015 and $57.2 billion at december 31, 2014. the remaining balance represents htm investment securities. (2) other loans primarily include tailored lending. (3) other lending includes activities related to commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, financing extended to equities and commodities customers, and loans to municipalities. 67 table of contents income tax matters. the effective tax rate from continuing operations was 25.9% for 2015. included in this rate were net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, primarily associated with the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify the legal entity organization in the u.k. excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 would have been 32.5%, which is reflective of the geographic mix of earnings. the effective tax rate from continuing operations was a benefit of 2.5% for 2014. included in this rate were net discrete tax benefits of $2,226 million. these net discrete tax benefits consisted of: $1,380 million primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability, previously established as part of the acquisition of smith barney in 2009 through a charge to additional paid-in capital, as a result of the legal entity restructuring that included a change in tax status of morgan stanley smith barney holdings llc from a partnership to a corporation; $609 million principally associated with the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 would have been 59.5%, which is primarily attributable to approximately $900 million of tax provision from non-deductible expenses for litigation and regulatory matters. the effective tax rate from continuing operations was 19.8% for 2013. included in this rate were net discrete tax benefits of $407 million. these net discrete tax benefits consisted of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-u.s. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the enactment of the relief act, which retroactively extended a provision of u.s. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside the u.s. until such income is repatriated to the u.s. as a dividend. excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2013 would have been 28.7%, which is reflective of the geographic mix of earnings. discretionary incentive compensation. on december 1, 2014, the compensation, management development and succession committee ( cmds committee ) of the company board of directors (the board ) approved an approach for awards of discretionary incentive compensation for the 2014 performance year to be granted in 2015 that would reduce the average deferral of such awards to an approximate baseline of 50%. additionally, the cmds committee approved the acceleration of vesting for certain outstanding deferred cash-based incentive compensation awards. the deferred cash-based incentive compensation awards subject to accelerated vesting will be distributed on their regularly scheduled future distribution dates and will continue to be subject to cancellation and clawback provisions. the following table presents the increase in compensation and benefits expense for the company and each of the business segments as a result of these actions in 2014 ( 2014 compensation actions ). 2014 compensation and benefits expense. institutional securities wealth management investment management total (dollars in millions) 2014 compensation and benefits expense before fourth quarter actions(1) $ 6,882 $ 8,737 $ 1,068 $ 16,687 fourth quarter actions: change in 2014 level of deferrals(2) 610 66 80 756 acceleration of prior-year cash-based deferred awards(3) 294 22 65 381 fourth quarter actions total $ 904 $ 88 $ 145 $ 1,137 2014 compensation and benefits expense $ 7,786 $ 8,825 $ 1,213 $ 17,824 68 table of contents (1) amount represents compensation and benefits expense at pre-adjustment accrual levels ( i.e. , at an approximate average baseline 74% deferral rate and with no acceleration of cash-based award vesting that was utilized for the first three quarters of 2014). (2) amounts reflect reduction in deferral level from an approximate average baseline of 74% to an approximate average baseline of 50%. (3) amounts represent acceleration of vesting for certain cash-based awards. 69 table of contents accounting development updates. thus far in 2016, the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) issued the following accounting update, which applies to the company: recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. the guidance is effective for the company beginning january 1, 2018. early adoption is permitted for a specific component in the accounting standard, in which the company would present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk if the company has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments ( i.e. , dva). this accounting update is currently being evaluated to determine the potential impact of adoption. during 2015 and 2014, the fasb issued the following accounting updates, which apply to the company, but they are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements: simplifying the accounting for measurement-period adjustments. simplifying the presentation of debt issuance costs. amendments to the consolidation analysis. determining whether the host contract in a hybrid financial instrument issued in the form of a share is more akin to debt or to equity. disclosure of uncertainties about an entity ability to continue as a going concern. measuring the financial assets and financial liabilities of a consolidated collateralized financing entity. accounting for share-based payments when the terms of an award provide that a performance target could be achieved after the requisite service period. during 2014, the fasb also issued the following accounting update: revenue from contracts with customers. in may 2014, the fasb issued an accounting update to clarify the principles of revenue recognition, to develop a common revenue recognition standard across all industries for u.s. gaap and international financial reporting standards and to provide enhanced disclosures for users of the financial statements. the core principle of this guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. on april 1, 2015, the fasb voted to propose a deferral of the effective date of this accounting update by one year to january 1, 2018. additionally, the fasb permits an entity to adopt this accounting update early but not before the original effective date, beginning january 1, 2017. this accounting update is currently being evaluated to determine the potential impact of adoption. 70 table of contents critical accounting policies. the company consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap, which require the company to make estimates and assumptions (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8). the company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. fair value. financial instruments measured at fair value. a significant number of the company financial instruments are carried at fair value. the company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. these assets and liabilities include, but are not limited to: trading assets and trading liabilities; afs securities; securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received as collateral; certain securities purchased under agreements to resell; certain deposits, primarily structured certificates of deposits; certain short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes; certain securities sold under agreements to repurchase; certain other secured financings; and certain long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes. fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. in determining fair value, the company uses various valuation approaches. a hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. the hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein level 1 uses quoted prices in active markets, level 2 uses valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, and level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. in periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. this condition could cause an instrument to be recategorized from level 1 to level 2 or level 2 to level 3. in addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. for further information on the valuation process, fair value definition, level 1, level 2, level 3 and related valuation techniques, and quantitative information about and sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs used in level 3 fair value measurements, see notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in 85 table of contents the basel committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the basel iii framework that, if adopted by the u.s. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to u.s. basel iii. in particular, the basel committee has finalized a new methodology for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures in derivatives transactions, the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures, and revised frameworks for market risk and securitization capital requirements. in addition, the basel committee has proposed revisions to various regulatory capital standards, including for credit risk, operational risk and interest rate risk in the banking book. in each case, the impact of these revised standards on the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the u.s. banking agencies. calculation of risk-based capital ratios. on february 21, 2014, the federal reserve and the occ approved the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries respective use of the u.s. basel iii advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the capital floor discussed below (the advanced approach ). as a u.s. basel iii advanced approach banking organization, the company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios calculated using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk rwas and market risk rwas (the standardized approach ); and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk rwas, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk rwas, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk rwas under u.s. basel iii. to implement a provision of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), u.s. basel iii subjects advanced approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the company, to a permanent capital floor. beginning on january 1, 2015, as a result of the capital floor, the company binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the advanced approach or the standardized approach under u.s. basel iii. the u.s. basel iii standardized approach modifies certain u.s. basel i-based methods for calculating rwas and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and exposures. the capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital requirements, the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer (if deployed by banking regulators) and the global systemically important bank ( g-sib ) capital surcharge. the methods for calculating each of the company risk-based capital ratios will change through january 1, 2022 as aspects of u.s. basel iii are phased in. these ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the company reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to its capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile. calculation of the u.s. basel iii capital ratios on a transitional and fully phased-in basis. transition period fully phased in(1) second to fourth quarter of 2014 2015 to 2017 2018 and onward regulatory capital (numerator of risk-based capital and leverage ratios) u.s. basel iii transitional(2) u.s. basel iii rwas (denominator of risk-based capital ratios) standardized approach u.s. basel i and basel 2.5 u.s. basel iii standardized approach advanced approach u.s. basel iii advanced approach denominator of leverage ratios tier 1 leverage ratio adjusted average on-balance sheet assets(3) supplementary leverage ratio adjusted average on-balance sheet assets(3) and certain off-balance sheet exposures 86 table of contents (1) beginning in 2018, u.s. basel iii rules defining capital (numerator of capital ratios) will be fully phased in, except for the exclusion of non-qualifying trust preferred securities from tier 2 capital, which will be fully phased in as of january 1, 2022. in addition, the company will also be subject to a greater than 2.5% common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer, a g-sib capital surcharge and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer, all of which will be fully phased in by the beginning of 2019. the capital conservation buffer, the g-sib capital surcharge and, if deployed, the countercyclical buffer apply in addition to each of the company common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total capital ratios. the requirements for these additional capital buffers will be phased in beginning in 2016. for information on the recently adopted g-sib capital surcharge, see g-sib capital surcharge herein. (2) in 2015, as a result of the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries completion of the advanced approach parallel run, the amount of expected credit loss that exceeds eligible credit reserves must be deducted 40% from common equity tier 1 capital and 60% from additional tier 1 capital. over the next two years, this deduction from common equity tier 1 capital will incrementally increase and the amount deducted from additional tier 1 capital will correspondingly decrease until fully phased in by the beginning of 2018. in addition, under the advanced approach framework, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in tier 2 capital. instead, an advanced approach banking organization may include in tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its advanced approach credit risk rwas. the allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under the standardized approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk rwas. (3) in accordance with u.s. basel iii, adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under u.s. gaap during the calendar quarter, adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments. regulatory capital ratios. regulatory capital ratios and minimum regulatory capital ratios applicable under u.s. basel iii. at december 31, 2015 minimum regulatory capital ratio actual capital ratio u.s. basel iii transitional/ standardized approach u.s. basel iii transitional/ advanced approach calendar year 2015 common equity tier 1 capital ratio 16.4% 15.5% 4.5% tier 1 capital ratio 18.4% 17.4% 6.0% total capital ratio 22.0% 20.7% 8.0% tier 1 leverage ratio 8.3% n/a 4.0% n/a not applicable. for the company to remain a financial holding company, its u.s. bank subsidiaries must qualify as well-capitalized under the higher capital requirements of u.s. basel iii by maintaining a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5%, and a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. the federal reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards in u.s. basel iii. assuming that the federal reserve would apply the same or very similar well-capitalized standards to financial holding companies, each of the company risk-based capital ratios and tier 1 leverage ratio at december 31, 2015 would have exceeded the revised well-capitalized standard. the federal reserve may require the company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk- and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. at december 31, 2015, the company capital ratios calculated under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach were lower than those calculated under the u.s. basel iii standardized approach and, therefore, are the binding ratios for the company as a result of the capital floor. at december 31, 2014, the company capital ratios calculated under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach were lower than those calculated under the standardized approach, represented as the u.s. banking regulators u.s. basel i-based rules ( u.s. basel i ) as supplemented by rules that implemented the basel committee market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as basel 2.5 and, therefore, are the binding ratios. 87 table of contents rwas and regulatory capital ratios under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules. at december 31, 2015 at december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) rwas: credit risk $ 173,586 $ 184,645 market risk 71,476 121,363 operational risk 139,100 150,000 total rwas $ 384,162 $ 456,008 capital ratios: common equity tier 1 ratio 15.5% 12.6% tier 1 capital ratio 17.4% 14.1% total capital ratio 20.7% 16.4% tier 1 leverage ratio(1) 8.3% 7.9% adjusted average assets(2) $ 803,574 $ 810,524 (1) tier 1 leverage ratios are calculated under u.s. basel iii standardized approach transitional rules. (2) beginning with the first quarter of 2015, in accordance with u.s. basel iii, adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under u.s. gaap during the calendar quarter, adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments. 88 table of contents regulatory capital calculated under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules. at december 31, 2015 at december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) common equity tier 1 capital: common stock and surplus $ 20,114 $ 21,503 retained earnings 49,204 44,625 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (1,656 ) (1,248 ) regulatory adjustments and deductions: net goodwill (6,582 ) (6,612 ) net intangible assets (other than goodwill and mortgage servicing assets) (1,192 ) (632 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (202 ) (161 ) net deferred tax assets (675 ) (580 ) net after-tax debt valuation adjustment 156 158 adjustments related to accumulated other comprehensive income 411 462 expected credit loss over eligible credit reserves (10 ) other adjustments and deductions (169 ) (181 ) total common equity tier 1 capital $ 59,409 $ 57,324 additional tier 1 capital: preferred stock $ 7,520 $ 6,020 trust preferred securities 702 2,434 nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 678 1,004 regulatory adjustments and deductions: net deferred tax assets (1,012 ) (2,318 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (303 ) (644 ) net after-tax debt valuation adjustment 233 630 expected credit loss over eligible credit reserves (39 ) other adjustments and deductions (253 ) (229 ) additional tier 1 capital $ 7,565 $ 6,858 deduction for investments in covered funds (252 ) total tier 1 capital $ 66,722 $ 64,182 tier 2 capital: subordinated debt $ 10,404 $ 8,339 trust preferred securities 2,106 2,434 other qualifying amounts 35 27 regulatory adjustments and deductions 136 (10 ) total tier 2 capital $ 12,681 $ 10,790 total capital $ 79,403 $ 74,972 89 table of contents roll-forward of regulatory capital calculated under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules. 2015 (dollars in millions) common equity tier 1 capital: common equity tier 1 capital at december 31, 2014 $ 57,324 change related to the following items: value of shareholders common equity 2,782 net goodwill 30 net intangible assets (other than goodwill and mortgage servicing assets) (560 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (41 ) net deferred tax assets (95 ) net after-tax debt valuation adjustment (2 ) adjustments related to accumulated other comprehensive income (51 ) expected credit loss over eligible credit reserves 10 other deductions and adjustments 12 common equity tier 1 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 59,409 additional tier 1 capital: additional tier 1 capital at december 31, 2014 $ 6,858 new issuance of qualifying preferred stock 1,500 change related to the following items: trust preferred securities (1,732 ) nonredeemable noncontrolling interests (326 ) net deferred tax assets 1,306 credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities 341 net after-tax debt valuation adjustment (397 ) expected credit loss over eligible credit reserves 39 other adjustments and deductions (24 ) additional tier 1 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 7,565 deduction for investments in covered funds (252 ) tier 1 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 66,722 tier 2 capital: tier 2 capital at december 31, 2014 $ 10,790 change related to the following items: subordinated debt 2,065 trust preferred securities (328 ) nonredeemable noncontrolling interests 8 other adjustments and deductions 146 tier 2 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 12,681 total capital at december 31, 2015 $ 79,403 90 table of contents roll-forward of rwas calculated under the u.s. basel iii advanced approach transitional rules. 2015(1) (dollars in millions) credit risk rwas: balance at december 31, 2014 $ 184,645 change related to the following items: derivatives (6,509 ) securities financing transactions 1,486 other counterparty credit risk (39 ) securitizations 4,071 credit valuation adjustment (3,303 ) investment securities 1,402 loans (247 ) cash (682 ) equity investments (4,794 ) other credit risk(2) (2,444 ) total change in credit risk rwas $ (11,059 ) balance at december 31, 2015 $ 173,586 market risk rwas: balance at december 31, 2014 $ 121,363 change related to the following items: regulatory var (1,575 ) regulatory stressed var (16,256 ) incremental risk charge (9,826 ) comprehensive risk measure (2,750 ) specific risk: non-securitizations (3,848 ) securitizations (15,632 ) total change in market risk rwas $ (49,887 ) balance at december 31, 2015 $ 71,476 operational risk rwas: balance at december 31, 2014 $ 150,000 change in operational risk rwas(3) (10,900 ) balance at december 31, 2015 $ 139,100 var value-at-risk. (1) the rwas for each category in the table reflect both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, where appropriate. (2) amount reflects assets not in a defined category, non-material portfolios of exposures and unsettled transactions. (3) amount primarily reflects model recalibration related to residential mortgage litigation expense recorded in 2014. pro forma regulatory capital ratios. pro forma estimates under the fully phased-in u.s. basel iii advanced and standardized approaches. at december 31, 2015 u.s. basel iii advanced approach u.s. basel iii standardized approach (dollars in millions) common equity tier 1 capital $ 55,441 $ 55,441 total rwas 395,277 373,421 common equity tier 1 ratio 14.0% 14.8% required common equity tier 1 ratio at january 1, 2019(1) 10.0% 10.0% (1) includes the applicable minimum risk-based capital ratio and capital conservation buffer and assumes that: (1) the g-sib capital surcharge for the company remains at 3% as calculated by the federal reserve in july 2015; and (2) no countercyclical buffer has been deployed. 91 table of contents these fully phased-in basis pro forma estimates are based on the company current understanding of u.s. basel iii and other factors, which may be subject to change as the company receives additional clarification and implementation guidance from the federal reserve relating to u.s. basel iii and as the interpretation of the regulation evolves over time. the fully phased-in basis pro forma common equity tier 1 capital, rwas and common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio estimates are non-gaap financial measures that the company considers to be useful measures for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that were not yet effective at december 31, 2015. these preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should not be taken as a projection of what the company capital ratios, rwas, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. the company is subject to the following minimum capital ratios under u.s. basel iii: common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; total capital ratio of 8.0%; and tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%. in addition, on a fully phased-in basis by 2019, the company will be subject to a greater than 2.5% common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer. the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, if any, apply over each of the company common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios. failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the company ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. the company is also subject to the g-sib capital surcharge, which augments the capital conservation buffer (see g-sib capital surcharge herein), and a supplementary leverage ratio (see supplementary leverage ratio herein). g-sib capital surcharge. in july 2015, the federal reserve issued a final rule imposing risk-based capital surcharges on u.s. bank holding companies that are identified as g-sibs, which include the company. a g-sib must calculate its g-sib capital surcharge under two methods and use the higher of the two surcharges. the first method considers the g-sib size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the basel committee. the second method uses similar inputs, but replaces substitutability with the use of short-term wholesale funding and generally results in higher surcharges than the first method. the g-sib capital surcharge must be satisfied using common equity tier 1 capital and functions as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. the federal reserve has stated that, under the final rule and using the most recent available data, the estimated g-sib surcharges will range from 1.0% to 4.5% of a gsib rwas. the federal reserve calculated the company g-sib surcharge at 3% in july 2015. the surcharge will be phased in between january 1, 2016 and january 1, 2019, and the phase-in amount for 2016 is 25% of the applicable surcharge (see pro forma regulatory capital ratios herein). total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt requirements. the federal reserve has issued a proposed rule for top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. g-sibs ( covered bhcs ), including the company, that establishes external total loss-absorbing capacity ( tlac ) and long-term debt ( ltd ) requirements. the proposal contains various definitions and restrictions, such as requiring eligible ltd to be unsecured, have a remaining maturity of at least one year, and not have derivative-linked features, such as structured notes. under the proposal, a covered bhc would be required to maintain minimum external tlac equal to the greater of 16% of rwas and 9.5% of its u.s. basel iii total leverage exposure (the denominator of its supplementary leverage ratio) by january 1, 2019, increasing to the greater of 18% of rwas and 9.5% of its u.s. basel iii total leverage exposure by january 1, 2022. in addition, covered bhcs must meet a separate external ltd requirement equal to the greater of 6% of rwas plus the method 2 g-sib capital surcharge applicable to the company, and 4.5% of its u.s. basel iii total leverage exposure. in addition, the proposed rule would impose a tlac buffer on top of the external tlac requirement. the tlac buffer must be composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital, and the same common equity tier 1 capital that is used to satisfy the capital conservation buffer, the g-sib surcharge, and the countercyclical buffer, if any, under u.s. basel iii may be used to satisfy the tlac buffer. the required buffer amount would be equal to the sum of 2.5%, the method 1 g-sib 92 table of contents surcharge applicable to the company and any applicable countercyclical buffer. failure to maintain the full tlac buffer would result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. the proposal would also impose restrictions on certain liabilities that covered bhcs may incur or have outstanding, including structured notes, as well as require all u.s. banking organizations supervised by the federal reserve with assets of at least $1 billion to make certain deductions from capital for their investments in unsecured debt issued by covered bhcs. the company continues to evaluate the potential impact of these proposed requirements. the steps that the covered bhcs, including the company, may need to take to come into compliance with the final tlac rules, including the amount and form of ltd that must be refinanced or issued, will depend in substantial part on the ultimate eligibility requirements for senior ltd and any grandfathering provisions in the final rules. the main purpose of the federal reserve proposed minimum tlac and ltd requirements is to ensure that covered bhcs, including the company, will have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of eligible ltd to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible ltd or other forms of tlac where the single point of entry ( spoe ) resolution strategy is used. this strategy can be used under either the orderly liquidation authority in title ii of the dodd-frank act or the u.s. bankruptcy code and is being adopted by both u.s. resolution authorities and by resolution authorities in other countries. as with other major financial companies, the combined implication of the spoe resolution strategy and the tlac proposal to facilitate the orderly resolution of g-sibs is that the group losses will likely be imposed on the holders of eligible ltd and other forms of eligible tlac issued by the top-tier bank holding company before any of its losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of the group operating subsidiaries or put u.s. taxpayers at risk (see business supervision and regulation financial holding company resolution and recovery planning in part i, item 1 and risk factors legal, regulatory and compliance risk in part i, item 1a). capital plans and stress tests . pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the company, which form part of the federal reserve annual comprehensive capital analysis and review ( ccar ) framework. the company must submit an annual capital plan to the federal reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the company and the federal reserve, so that the federal reserve may assess the company systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain its internal capital adequacy. the capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution ( i.e. , payments of dividends or stock repurchases), and any similar action that the federal reserve determines could impact the bank holding company consolidated capital. the capital plan must include a discussion of how the bank holding company will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the u.s. basel iii requirements that are phased in over the planning horizon, and serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary u.s. depository institutions under supervisory stress scenarios. in addition, the federal reserve has issued guidance setting out its heightened expectations for capital planning practices at certain large financial institutions, including the company. in november 2015, the federal reserve amended its capital plan and stress test rules, with effect from january 1, 2016, to delay until 2017 the use of the supplementary leverage ratio requirement, defer indefinitely the use of the advanced approach risk-based capital framework in capital planning and company-run stress tests, and incorporate the tier 1 capital deductions for certain investments in volcker rule covered funds into the pro forma minimum capital requirements for capital plan and stress testing purposes. in addition, the federal reserve has indicated that it is considering whether and, if so, how to incorporate the g-sib capital surcharge in the ccar and dodd-frank act stress tests. the capital plan rule requires that large bank holding companies receive no objection from the federal reserve before making a capital distribution. in addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the federal reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. a bank holding company 93 table of contents ability to make capital distributions (other than scheduled payments on additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital instruments) is also limited if its net capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan. in addition, the company must conduct semiannual company-run stress tests and is subject to an annual dodd-frank act supervisory stress test conducted by the federal reserve. the company received no objection to its 2015 capital plan (see capital management herein). beginning with the 2016 capital planning and stress test cycle and in subsequent cycles, the cycle begins on january 1, and large bank holding companies must submit their capital plans and company-run stress test results to the federal reserve by april 5, 2016. the company expects that the federal reserve will provide its response to the company 2016 capital plan by june 30, 2016. the federal reserve is expected to publish summary results of the ccar and dodd-frank act supervisory stress tests of each large bank holding company, including the company, by june 30, 2016. the company is required to disclose a summary of the results of its company-run stress tests within 15 days of the date the federal reserve discloses the results of the supervisory stress tests. in addition, the company must submit the results of its mid-cycle company-run stress test to the federal reserve by october 5, 2016 and disclose a summary of the results between october 5, 2016 and november 4, 2016. the dodd-frank act also requires each of the company u.s. bank subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. the occ has shifted the timing of the annual stress testing cycle that applies to the company u.s. bank subsidiaries beginning with the 2016 cycle. msbna and mspbna must submit their 2016 annual company-run stress tests to the occ by april 5, 2016 and publish the summary results between june 15, 2016 and july 15, 2016. supplementary leverage ratio. the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries are required to publicly disclose their u.s. basel iii supplementary leverage ratio, which will become effective as a capital standard on january 1, 2018. by january 1, 2018, the company must also maintain a tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of at least 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of at least 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. in addition, beginning in 2018, the company u.s. bank subsidiaries must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered well-capitalized. supplementary leverage exposure and ratio on transitional basis under the u.s. basel iii rules. at december 31, 2015 (dollars in millions) total assets $ 787,465 consolidated daily average total assets(1) $ 813,715 adjustment for derivative exposures(2)(3) 216,317 adjustment for repo-style transactions(2)(4) 15,064 adjustment for off-balance sheet exposures(2)(5) 62,850 other adjustments(6) (10,141 ) pro forma supplementary leverage exposure $ 1,097,805 pro forma supplementary leverage ratio(7) 6.1% (1) computed as the average daily balance of consolidated total assets under u.s. gaap during the calendar quarter. (2) computed as the arithmetic mean of the month-end balances over the calendar quarter. (3) reflects the addition of the potential future exposure for derivative contracts (including derivatives that are centrally cleared for clients), the gross-up of cash collateral netting where certain qualifying criteria are not met, and the effective notional principal amount of sold credit protection offset by certain qualifying purchased credit protection. (4) reflects the counterparty credit risk associated with repo-style transactions. (5) reflects the credit equivalent amount of off-balance sheet exposures, which is computed by applying the relevant credit conversion factors. (6) reflects adjustments to tier 1 capital, including disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments. (7) at december 31, 2015, pro forma supplementary leverage ratios calculated using tier 1 capital and pro forma supplementary leverage exposures computed under u.s. basel iii on a transitional basis for the company u.s. bank subsidiaries were as follows: msbna: 7.3%; and mspbna: 10.3%. the company estimates its pro forma fully phased-in supplementary leverage ratio to be approximately 5.8% at december 31, 2015. this estimate utilizes a fully phased-in u.s. basel iii tier 1 capital numerator and a fully phased-in 94 table of contents denominator of approximately $1,095.6 billion, which takes into consideration the tier 1 capital deductions that would be applicable in 2018 after the phased-in period has ended. the pro forma supplementary leverage exposures and pro forma supplementary leverage ratios, both on transitional and fully phased-in bases, are non-gaap financial measures that the company considers to be useful measures for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. the company estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from estimates based on these regulations. further, these expectations should not be taken as projections of what the company supplementary leverage ratios, earnings, assets or exposures will actually be at future dates. for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. required capital. the company required capital ( required capital ) estimation is based on the required capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. this framework is a risk-based and leverage use-of-capital measure, which is compared with the company regulatory capital to ensure that the company maintains an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events, where applicable, at a point in time. the company defines the difference between its regulatory capital and aggregate required capital as parent capital. average common equity tier 1 capital, aggregate required capital and parent capital for 2015 were approximately $58.2 billion, $39.0 billion and $19.2 billion, respectively. the company generally holds parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, including for example, supplementary leverage ratio and u.s. basel iii transitional deductions and adjustments expected to reduce its capital through 2018. the company also holds parent capital for organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs. common equity tier 1 capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the required capital framework, as well as each business segment relative contribution to the company total required capital. required capital is assessed for each business segment and further attributed to product lines. this process is intended to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. the required capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. the company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate. average common equity tier 1 capital and average common equity by business segment and parent capital. 2015 2014 average common equity tier 1 capital(1) average common equity(1) average common equity tier 1 capital(1) average common equity(1) (dollars in billions) institutional securities $ 32.8 $ 34.6 $ 31.3 $ 32.2 wealth management 4.9 11.2 5.2 11.2 investment management 1.3 2.2 1.9 2.9 parent capital 19.2 18.9 19.2 19.0 total $ 58.2 $ 66.9 $ 57.6 $ 65.3 (1) amounts are calculated on a monthly basis. average common equity and average common equity tier 1 capital are non-gaap financial measures that the company and investors consider to be useful measures to assess capital adequacy. resolution and recovery planning. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the company is required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. the company preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in its 2015 resolution plan, is an spoe strategy. on august 5, 2014, the federal reserve and the fdic notified the company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans needed to be addressed in their 2015 resolution plans. if the federal reserve and the fdic both were to determine that the company 2015 resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the company does not cure the plan deficiencies, the company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or, after a two-year period, the company may be required to divest assets or operations. 95 table of contents for more information about resolution and recovery planning requirements and the activities of the company and its u.s. bank subsidiaries in these areas, see business supervision and regulation financial holding company resolution and recovery planning in part i, item 1. off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations. off-balance sheet arrangements. the company enters into various off-balance sheet arrangements, including through unconsolidated special purpose entities ( spes ) and lending-related financial instruments ( e.g. , guarantees and commitments), primarily in connection with the institutional securities and investment management business segments. the company utilizes spes primarily in connection with securitization activities. for information on the company securitization activities, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in contractual obligations. in the normal course of business, the company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations. future cash payments associated with certain obligations. at december 31, 2015 payments due in: 2016 2017-2018 2019-2020 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term borrowings(1) $ 22,396 $ 40,203 $ 35,573 $ 55,596 $ 153,768 other secured financings(1) 2,333 3,675 1,290 331 7,629 contractual interest payments(2) 4,965 7,763 5,409 18,075 36,212 time deposits(3) 2,604 68 20 2,692 operating leases premises(4) 612 1,212 923 3,127 5,874 purchase obligations(5) 554 438 148 233 1,373 total(6) $ 33,464 $ 53,359 $ 43,343 $ 77,382 $ 207,548 (1) for further information on long-term borrowings and other secured financings, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $15.8 billion and $11.8 billion, respectively, the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $26.9 billion and $25.4 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of unrated loans was $4.2 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. event-driven loans and lending commitments. included in the total loans and lending commitments above at december 31, 2015 were event-driven exposures of $23.2 billion composed of loans of $5.4 billion and lending commitments of $17.8 billion. included in the event-driven exposures at december 31, 2015 were $13.5 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers. the maturity profile of these event-driven loans and lending commitments at december 31, 2015 was as follows: 24% will mature in less than 1 year, 21% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 24% will mature within 3 to 5 years and 31% will mature in over 5 years. included in the total loans and lending commitments above at december 31, 2014 were event-driven exposures of $15.2 billion composed of funded loans of $5.7 billion and lending commitments of $9.5 billion. included in the event-driven exposure at december 31, 2014 were $11.6 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers. 111 table of contents the maturity profile of these event-driven loans and lending commitments at december 31, 2014 was as follows: 18% will mature in less than 1 year, 14% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 37% will mature within 3 to 5 years and 31% will mature in over 5 years. at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, approximately 99.5% of the institutional securities business segment loans held for investment were current, while approximately 0.5% were on nonaccrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt. institutional securities credit exposure from loans and lending commitments by industry. industry(1) at december 31, 2015 at december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) real estate $ 17,847 $ 16,867 energy 15,921 14,926 healthcare 12,677 10,203 utilities 12,631 11,986 consumer discretionary 12,098 11,755 funds, exchanges and other financial services(2) 11,649 9,949 information technology 11,122 7,931 industrials 10,018 9,896 consumer staples 8,597 7,584 mortgage finance 8,260 6,516 materials 6,440 5,357 insurance 4,682 3,313 telecommunications services 4,403 4,484 special purpose vehicles 3,482 3,326 consumer finance 977 1,065 other 1,623 2,559 total $ 142,427 $ 127,717 (1) industry categories are based on the global industry classification standard&reg;. (2) includes mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses, and diversified financial services. institutional securities lending exposures related to the energy industry. at december 31, 2015, institutional securities loans and lending commitments related to the energy industry were $15.9 billion. approximately 60% of these energy industry loans and lending commitments were to investment grade counterparties. at december 31, 2015, the energy industry portfolio included $1.7 billion in loans and $2.7 billion in lending commitments to oil and gas exploration and production ( e&amp;p ) companies. the e&amp;p loans were substantially all to non-investment grade counterparties which are subject to semi-annual borrowing base reassessments based on the value of the underlying oil and gas reserves pledged as collateral. the e&amp;p lending commitments were primarily to investment grade counterparties. margin lending. in addition, institutional securities lending activities include margin lending, which allows the client to borrow against the value of qualifying securities. at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, the amounts related to margin lending were $10.6 billion and $15.3 billion, respectively, which were classified within customer and other receivables in the consolidated statements of financial condition. wealth management lending activities. the principal wealth management lending activities include securities-based lending and residential real estate loans. securities-based lending provided to the company retail clients is primarily conducted through its portfolio loan account ( pla ) and liquidity access line ( lal ) platforms which had an outstanding loan balance of $24.9 billion and $19.1 billion at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, respectively. these loans allow the client to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any purpose other than purchasing securities. the company establishes approved credit lines against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit 112 table of contents additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. these credit lines are primarily uncommitted loan facilities, as the company reserves the right to not make any advances, or may terminate these credit lines at any time. factors considered in the review of these loans include, but are not limited to, the loan amount, the client credit profile, the degree of leverage, collateral diversification, price volatility and liquidity of the collateral. residential real estate loans consist of first and second lien mortgages, including heloc loans. the company underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis utilizing industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g. , fair isaac corporation ( fico ) scores), debt ratios and assets of the borrower. loan-to-value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. the vast majority of mortgage and heloc loans are held for investment in the wealth management business segment loan portfolio. for the year ended december 31, 2015, loans and lending commitments associated with the wealth management business segment lending activities increased by approximately 29%, mainly due to growth in pla, lal and residential real estate loans. wealth management lending activities by remaining contractual maturity. at december 31, 2015 years to maturity less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 total (dollars in millions) securities-based lending and other loans $ 25,975 $ 1,004 $ 889 $ 749 $ 28,617 residential real estate loans 35 20,870 20,905 total $ 25,975 $ 1,004 $ 924 $ 21,619 $ 49,522 lending commitments 5,143 286 115 277 5,821 total loans and lending commitments $ 31,118 $ 1,290 $ 1,039 $ 21,896 $ 55,343 at december 31, 2014 years to maturity less than 1 1-3 3-5 over 5 total (dollars in millions) securities-based lending and other loans $ 19,408 $ 1,071 $ 750 $ 768 $ 21,997 residential real estate loans 15,825 15,825 total $ 19,408 $ 1,071 $ 750 $ 16,593 $ 37,822 lending commitments 4,192 290 131 301 4,914 total loans and lending commitments $ 23,600 $ 1,361 $ 881 $ 16,894 $ 42,736 at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, approximately 99.9% of the wealth management business segment loans held for investment were current, while approximately 0.1% were on nonaccrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt. the wealth management business segment also provides margin lending to clients and had an outstanding balance of $14.7 billion and $13.7 billion at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014, respectively, which were classified within customer and other receivables within the consolidated statements of financial condition. in addition, the wealth management business segment has employee loans that are granted primarily in conjunction with programs established by the company to recruit and retain certain employees. these loans, recorded in customer and other receivables in the consolidated statements of financial condition, are full recourse, require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from 2 to 12 years. the company establishes an allowance for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable from terminated employees, which is recorded in compensation and benefits expense. 113 table of contents credit exposure derivatives. the company incurs credit risk as a dealer in over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives. credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. in connection with its otc derivative activities, the company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. these agreements provide the company with the ability to demand collateral, as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under the same master netting agreement in the event of counterparty default. the company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). for credit exposure information on the company otc derivative products, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 12 institutional securities and wealth management our competitive position for our institutional securities and wealth management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. we compete directly in the u.s. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. additionally, there is increased competition driven by established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models (including innovative uses of technology) competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and services. our ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by our credit ratings), to commit and to deploy capital efficiently, particularly in our capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects our competitive position. corporate clients may request that we provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to continue. it is possible that competition may become even more intense as we continue to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain geographies or products. many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on our businesses. in addition, our business is subject to extensive regulation in the u.s. and abroad, while certain of our competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. 1 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents we continue to experience intense price competition in some of our businesses. in particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional trading moves to more automated platforms. it is also possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing). investment management our ability to compete successfully in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including our reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and appropriate benchmark indices, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. our investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers with passive investment products or who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us. supervision and regulation as a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. moreover, in response to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the u.s. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose or are in the process of implementing a wide range of reforms that have resulted or that may in the future result in major changes to the way we are regulated and conduct our business. these reforms include the dodd-frank act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted or being developed by the basel committee on banking supervision (the basel committee ), including basel iii, and the national implementation of those standards; capital planning and stress testing requirements; and new resolution regimes that are being developed in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. while certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. we continue to monitor the changing political, tax and regulatory environment; it is likely that there will be further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the u.s. and other markets in which we operate, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. financial holding company consolidated supervision. we have operated as a bank holding company and fhc under the bhc act since september 2008. as a bank holding company, we are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the federal reserve. under existing regulation, the federal reserve has heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of our subsidiaries. in particular, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses; new activities limitations; a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the bhc act added by the dodd-frank act referred to as the volcker rule ; and comprehensive derivatives regulation. in addition, the consumer financial protection bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over us and our subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable. scope of permitted activities. the bhc act limits the activities of bank holding companies and financial holding companies and grants the federal reserve authority to limit our ability to conduct activities. we must obtain the federal reserve approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the u.s. and internationally. since becoming a bank holding company, we have disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the bhc act. the bhc act grandfathers activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, provided that we were engaged in any of such activities as of september 30, 1997 in the united states and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. we currently engage in our commodities activities pursuant to the bhc act grandfather exemption as well as other authorities under the bhc act. activities restrictions under the volcker rule. the volcker rule prohibits banking entities, including the firm and its affiliates, from engaging in certain proprietary trading activities, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. the volcker rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with covered funds, with a number of december 2016 form 10-k 2 table of contents exemptions and exclusions. banking entities were required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the volcker rule by july 21, 2015, subject to certain extensions. for more information about the conformance periods applicable to certain covered funds, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory developments. in addition, the volcker rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the volcker rule. the volcker rule also requires that deductions be made from a bank holding company tier 1 capital for certain permissible investments in covered funds. beginning with the three months ended september 30, 2015, the required deductions are reflected in our relevant regulatory capital tiers and ratios. given its complexity, the full impact of the volcker rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. capital standards. the federal reserve establishes capital requirements for large bank holding companies and evaluates our compliance with such requirements. the office of the comptroller of the currency (the occ ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our u.s. bank subsidiaries, morgan stanley bank, n.a. ( msbna ) and morgan stanley private bank, national association ( mspbna ) (collectively, u.s. bank subsidiaries ). regulatory capital framework. the federal reserve establishes capital requirements for large bank holding companies, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates our compliance with such capital requirements. the occ establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our u.s. bank subsidiaries. the regulatory capital requirements are largely based on the basel iii capital standards established by the basel committee and also implement certain provisions of the dodd-frank act. after completion of certain transitional arrangements in the regulatory capital framework, we will be subject to various risk-based capital requirements, measured against our common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and total capital bases, leverage-based capital requirements, including the supplementary leverage ratio, and additional capital buffers above generally applicable minimum standards for bank holding companies. the basel committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the capital framework that, if adopted by the u.s. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to our regulatory capital framework. regulated subsidiaries. in addition, many of our regulated subsidiaries are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to regulatory capital requirements, including regulated subsidiaries registered as swap dealers with the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ) or security-based swap dealers with the sec (collectively, swaps entities ) or registered as broker-dealers or futures commission merchants. specific regulatory capital requirements vary by regulated subsidiary, and in many cases these standards are not yet established or are subject to ongoing rulemakings that could substantially modify requirements. commodities-related capital requirements. in september 2016, the federal reserve issued a proposed rulemaking that would increase risk-based capital requirements for certain commodities-related activities and commodities-related merchant banking investments of u.s. fhcs, including the firm; impose new limitations on the physical commodity trading activities of certain u.s. fhcs; and enhance reporting requirements with respect to u.s. fhcs commodities-related activities and investments. if adopted in its current form, the proposed rulemaking would result in increases in our risk-weighted assets ( rwas ) with respect to certain commodities-related investments and physical commodity holdings. however, we expect that the proposed rule, if finalized in its proposed form, would not have a material impact on our aggregate rwas or risk-based capital ratios. for more information about the specific capital requirements applicable to us and our u.s. bank subsidiaries, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. capital planning, stress tests and capital distributions. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including morgan stanley. the dodd-frank act also requires each of our u.s. bank subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. for more information about the capital planning and stress test requirements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. in addition to capital planning requirements, the occ, the federal reserve and the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the firm and its u.s. bank subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. all of these 3 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to our u.s. bank subsidiaries under circumstances which we would not otherwise decide to do so. liquidity standards. in addition to capital regulations, the u.s. banking agencies and the basel committee have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. the basel committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the liquidity coverage ratio ( lcr ) and the net stable funding ratio ( nsfr ). the firm and its u.s. bank subsidiaries are subject to the lcr requirements issued by the u.s. banking regulators ( u.s. lcr ) and would be subject to the nsfr requirements proposed by the u.s. banking regulators ( u.s. nsfr ). in addition to the u.s. lcr and u.s. nsfr, we and many of our regulated subsidiaries, including those registered as swaps entities with the cftc or sec, are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to other liquidity standards, including liquidity stress-testing and associated liquidity reserve requirements. for more information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory liquidity framework in part ii, item 7. systemic risk regime. the dodd-frank act established a systemic risk regime to which bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as morgan stanley, are subject. under rules issued by the federal reserve to implement certain requirements of the dodd-frank act enhanced prudential standards, such bank holding companies must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. institutions also must comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements. in march 2016, the federal reserve re-proposed rules that would establish single-counterparty credit limits for large banking organizations ( covered companies ), with more stringent limits for the largest covered companies. u.s. global systemically important banks ( g-sibs ), including the firm, would be subject to a limit of 15% of tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any major counterparty (defined as other u.s. g-sibs, foreign g-sibs and nonbank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the federal reserve) and to a limit of 25% of tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. we continue to evaluate the potential impact of the proposed rules. in addition, the federal reserve has proposed rules that would create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses. the federal reserve also has the ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. for example, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt requirement in part ii, item 7. under the systemic risk regime, if the federal reserve or the financial stability oversight council determines that a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a grave threat to u.s. financial stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or offer financial products and required to terminate activities and dispose of assets. see also capital standards and liquidity standards herein and resolution and recovery planning below. resolution and recovery planning. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, we are required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of our material financial distress or failure. our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2015 resolution plan, is a single point of entry ( spoe ) strategy. an spoe strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the parent company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy after the parent company has filed for bankruptcy. further, we are required to submit an annual recovery plan to the federal reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress. certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. for example, msbna must submit to the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes msbna strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of msbna. in september 2016, the occ issued final guidelines that establish enforceable standards for recovery planning by national banks and certain other institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, calculated on a rolling four-quarter average basis, including msbna. the guidelines were effective on january 1, 2017, and msbna must be in compliance by january 1, 2018. december 2016 form 10-k 4 table of contents in addition, under the dodd-frank act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the firm and certain of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in title ii of the dodd-frank act with the fdic being appointed as receiver, provided that certain procedures are met, including certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations by the u.s. treasury secretary in consultation with the u.s. president. the orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others not yet proposed. if we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the fdic would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove directors and officers responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign our assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among our creditors, including by treating certain creditors within the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. the fdic has been developing an spoe strategy that could be used to implement the orderly liquidation authority. regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. for more information about our resolution plan-related submissions and associated regulatory actions, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations regulatory requirements total loss-absorbing capacity, long-term debt and clean holding company requirements and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory developments resolution and recovery planning in part ii, item 7. cyber risk management. as a general matter, the financial services industry faces increased regulatory focus regarding cyber risk management practices. in october 2016, the federal banking regulators issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including the firm. the proposed standards would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. in addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector. u.s. bank subsidiaries u.s. bank subsidiaries. msbna, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products, and also conducts certain foreign exchange activities. mspbna offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of our affiliate retail broker-dealer, morgan stanley smith barney llc ( mssb llc ). mspbna also offers certain deposit products and prime brokerage custody services. both msbna and mspbna are fdic-insured national banks subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the occ. they are both subject to the occ risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large national bank risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by the bank board of directors. prompt corrective action. the federal deposit insurance corporation improvement act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take prompt corrective action ( pca ) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. current pca regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as msbna or mspbna and not to their parent holding companies. the federal reserve is, however, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. under the systemic risk regime, as described above, we also would become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. in addition, bank holding companies, such as morgan stanley, are required to serve as a source of strength to their u.s. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress. transactions with affiliates. our u.s. bank subsidiaries are subject to sections 23a and 23b of the federal reserve act, which impose restrictions on covered transactions with any affiliates. covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured banks with an affiliate. these restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that our u.s. bank subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates. other provisions set collateral requirements and require all such transactions to be made on market terms. derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between our u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates are 5 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents subject to these restrictions. the federal reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more recent restrictions. in addition, the volcker rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) us or any of our affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by us or any of our affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the volcker rule. see also financial holding company activities restriction under the volcker rule above. fdic regulation. an fdic-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the fdic in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. as commonly controlled fdic-insured depository institutions, each of msbna and mspbna could be responsible for any loss to the fdic from the failure of the other. in addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of fdic insurance. under the dodd-frank act, some of the restoration of the fdic reserve fund must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including msbna. institutional securities and wealth management broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. our primary u.s. broker-dealer subsidiaries, morgan stanley &amp; co. llc ( ms&amp;co. ) and mssb llc, are registered broker-dealers with the sec and in all 50 states, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the financial industry regulatory authority, inc. ( finra ), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers funds and securities, capital structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of the securities investor protection corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. mssb llc is also a registered investment adviser with the sec. mssb llc relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisers under the investment advisers act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities laws. these laws and regulations generally grant the sec and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address non-compliance, including the power to restrict or limit mssb llc from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. the firm is subject to various regulations that affect broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. for example, under the dodd-frank act, the sec is authorized to impose a fiduciary duty rule applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers, although the sec has not yet acted on this authority. as a separate matter, in april 2016, the u.s. department of labor adopted a conflict of interest rule under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 that broadens the circumstances under which a firm and/or financial adviser is considered a fiduciary when providing certain recommendations to retirement investors and requires that such recommendations be in the best interests of clients. subject to any potential delays, the new fiduciary standard for investment advice has a scheduled applicability date of april 10, 2017, with certain aspects subject to phased-in compliance, and with full compliance required by january 1, 2018. given the breadth and scale of our platform and continued investment in technology and infrastructure, we believe that we will be able to provide compliant solutions to meet our clients investment needs. however, these developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential litigation or enforcement risk. margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the federal reserve restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under finra and other self-regulatory organization rules. in many cases, our broker-dealer subsidiaries margin policies are more stringent than these rules. as registered u.s. broker-dealers, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the sec net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory author- december 2016 form 10-k 6 table of contents ities and self-regulatory organizations. these rules are generally designed to measure the broker-dealer subsidiary general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. see also financial holding company consolidated supervision and financial holding company liquidity standards above. rules of finra and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations assets. research. both u.s. and non-u.s. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions, including in the u.s. where finra has adopted rules that cover both equity and debt. new and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with u.s. federal and state regulators (to which we are a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures. regulation of futures activities and certain commodities activities. ms&amp;co., as a futures commission merchant, and mssb llc, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and certain of their activities are regulated by, the cftc, the national futures association (the nfa ), cme group, and various commodity futures exchanges. ms&amp;co. and mssb llc and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the nfa in various capacities. rules and regulations of the cftc, nfa and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, customer protections, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants, and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading. our commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the u.s. and abroad. intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by u.s. federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. see also financial holding company scope of permitted activities and capital standards commodities-related capital requirements above. derivatives regulation. under the u.s. regulatory regime for swaps and security-based swaps (collectively, swaps ) implemented pursuant to the dodd-frank act, we are subject to regulations including, among others, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of swaps. while the cftc has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect, the sec has not yet adopted a number of its swaps regulations. the dodd-frank act also requires the registration of swap dealers with the cftc and security-based swap dealers with the sec. certain of our subsidiaries have registered with the cftc as swap dealers and will in the future be required to register with the sec as security-based swap dealers. such swaps entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the swaps activities for which they are registered, including capital requirements, margin requirements for uncleared swaps and comprehensive business conduct rules. each of the cftc and the sec have proposed rules to impose capital standards on swaps entities subject to their respective jurisdictions, which include our subsidiaries, but these rules have not yet been finalized. the specific parameters of some of these requirements for swaps have been and continue to be developed through the cftc, sec and bank regulator rulemakings. in 2015, the federal banking regulators and the cftc separately issued final rules establishing uncleared swap margin requirements for swaps entities subject to their respective regulation, including msbna, morgan stanley capital services llc and morgan stanley &amp; co. international plc ( msip ), respectively. these final rules impose variation margin requirements under a phase-in compliance schedule that applied to the largest dealers as of september 1, 2016 and will apply to the remainder of in-scope market participants as of march 1, 2017. similarly, the final rules phase-in initial margin requirements from september 1, 2016 through september 1, 2020, depending on the level of over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. margin rules with the same or similar compliance dates have been adopted or are in the process of being finalized by regulators outside the u.s. and certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to such rules. although the full impact of global derivatives regulation on us remains unclear, we have already faced, and are expected to continue to face, increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. complying with the swaps rules also has required, and is expected to in the future require, us to change our swaps businesses and has required, and may in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. compliance with swaps-related regulatory capital requirements may require us to devote more capital to our swaps business. 7 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents non-u.s. regulation. our institutional securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-u.s. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. in addition, certain morgan stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the u.s. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. for instance, the prudential regulation authority ( pra ), the financial conduct authority ( fca ) and several securities and futures exchanges in the u.k., including the london stock exchange and ice futures europe, regulate our activities in the u.k.; the bundesanstalt f&uuml;r finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the federal financial supervisory authority) and the deutsche b&ouml;rse ag regulate our activities in the federal republic of germany; the financial services agency, the bank of japan, the japanese securities dealers association and several japanese securities and futures exchanges, regulate our activities in japan; the securities and futures commission of hong kong, the hong kong monetary authority and the hong kong exchanges and clearing limited regulate our operations in hong kong; and the monetary authority of singapore and the singapore exchange limited regulate our business in singapore. our largest non-u.s. entity, msip, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the pra, which has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards applicable to msip that seek to ensure its safety and soundness and to minimize adverse effects on the stability of the u.k. financial system. msip is also regulated and supervised by the fca with respect to business conduct matters. non-u.s. policymakers and regulators, including the european commission and european supervisory authorities (among others, the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and to formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to our european operations. in november 2016, the european commission published proposals that would require certain large, non-e.u. financial groups with two or more institutions established in the e.u., to establish a single e.u. intermediate holding company ( ihc ). the proposals would require e.u. banks and broker-dealers to be held below the e.u. ihc; until more specific regulations are proposed, it remains unclear which other e.u. entities would need to be held beneath the e.u. ihc. the e.u. ihc would be subject to: direct supervision and authorization by the european central bank or the relevant national e.u. regu- lator; the e.u. bank recovery and resolution regime under the e.u. bank recovery and resolution directive ( brrd ); and capital, liquidity, leverage and other prudential standards on a consolidated basis. the proposals will now be considered by the european parliament and the council of the e.u. the final form of the proposals, as well as the date of their adoption, is not yet certain. regulators in the u.k., e.u. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based capital, leverage capital, liquidity, market-based reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. for instance, european market infrastructure regulation introduces new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives, as well as margin requirements for uncleared derivatives. the markets in financial instrument regulation and a revision of the markets in financial instruments directive (together, mifid ii ), which is now scheduled to take effect on january 3, 2018, will also introduce comprehensive and new trading and market infrastructure reforms in the e.u., including new trading venues, enhancements to pre- and post-trading transparency, and additional investor protection requirements, among others. although the full impact of these changes remains unclear, complying with mifid ii is expected to require extensive changes to our operations, including systems and controls. regulators in the u.k., e.u. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing recovery and resolution planning frameworks and related regulatory requirements that will apply to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. for instance, the brrd has established a recovery and resolution framework for e.u. credit institutions and investment firms, including msip. e.u. member states were required to apply provisions implementing the brrd as of january 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and other e.u. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity. investment management many of the subsidiaries engaged in our asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the sec. many aspects of our asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. these laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us december 2016 form 10-k 8 table of contents from carrying on our asset management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on our engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. in order to facilitate our asset management business, we own a registered u.s. broker-dealer, morgan stanley distribution, inc., which acts as distributor to the morgan stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by our investment management business segment. in addition, certain of our affiliates are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to cftc rules and other guidance, and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise. violations of the rules of the cftc, the nfa or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. see also institutional securities and wealth management broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation, institutional securities and wealth management regulation of futures activities and certain commodities activities, institutional securities and wealth management derivatives regulation and institutional securities and wealth management non-u.s. regulation above for a discussion of other regulations that impact our investment management business, including, among other things, the department of labor conflict of interest rule and mifid ii. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank act, our asset management activities are subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, covered funds, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. many of these requirements may increase the expenses associated with our asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns we are able to generate for our asset management clients. see also financial holding company activities restrictions under the volcker rule and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory developments. our investment management business is also regulated outside the u.s. for example, the fca is the primary regulator of our business in the u.k.; the financial services agency regulates our business in japan; the securities and futures commission of hong kong regulates our business in hong kong; and the monetary authority of singapore regulates our business in singapore. see also institutional securities and wealth management non-u.s. regulation herein. financial crimes program our financial crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports our financial crime prevention efforts across all regions and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of our anti-money laundering ( aml ), economic sanctions ( sanctions ) and anti-corruption programs. in the u.s., the bank secrecy act, as amended by the usa patriot act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement aml programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. outside the u.s., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement aml programs. we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable aml laws and regulations. regarding sanctions, we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the u.s. treasury office of foreign assets control ( ofac ), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to u.s. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and to comply, as applicable, similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the united nations security council and the e.u. council. we are also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations. 9 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents protection of client information many aspects of our businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the gramm-leach-bliley act and the fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 in the u.s., the e.u. data protection directive and various laws in asia, including the japanese personal information (protection) law, the hong kong personal data (protection) ordinance and the australian privacy act. we have adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions. compensation practices and other regulation our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the federal reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies worldwide. in particular, we are subject to the federal reserve guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk taking that threatens the organizations safety and soundness. the scope and content of the federal reserve policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and we expect that these policies will evolve over a number of years. we are subject to the compensation-related provisions of the dodd-frank act, which may impact our compensation practices. in 2016, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, certain federal regulatory agencies reproposed a rule, which, if implemented as written, would require, among other things, the deferral of a percentage of certain incentive-based compensation for senior executives and certain other employees and, under certain circumstances, clawback of incentive-based compensation. in addition, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, in 2015, the sec proposed rules that would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. we continue to evaluate the proposed rules, both of which are subject to further rulemaking procedures. our compensation practices may also be impacted by regulations in other jurisdictions. our compensation practices with respect to certain employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of our e.u. operations are subject to the capital requirements directive iv (the crd iv ) and related e.u. and member state regulations, including, among others, a cap on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration and clawback arrangements in relation to variable remuneration paid in the past. in the u.k., the remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the remuneration code of the fca and by the pra rulebook (remuneration part), including provisions that implement the crd iv, as well as additional u.k. requirements. for a discussion of certain risks relating to our regulatory environment, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. executive officers of morgan stanley the executive officers of morgan stanley and their ages and titles as of february 27, 2017 are set forth below. business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with sec rules. jeffrey s. brodsky (52) . executive vice president and chief human resources officer of morgan stanley (since january 2016). vice president and global head of human resources (january 2011 to december 2015). co-head of human resources (january 2010 to december 2011). head of morgan stanley smith barney human resources (june 2009 to january 2010). james p. gorman (58) . chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of morgan stanley (since january 2012). president and chief executive officer (january 2010 through december 2011) and member of the board of directors (since january 2010). co-president (december 2007 to december 2009) and co-head of strategic planning (october 2007 to december 2009). president and chief operating officer of wealth management (february 2006 to april 2008). eric f. grossman (50) . executive vice president and chief legal officer of morgan stanley (since january 2012). global head of legal (september 2010 to january 2012). global head of litigation (january 2006 to september 2010) and general counsel of the americas (may 2009 to september 2010). general counsel of wealth management (november 2008 to september 2010). partner at the law firm of davis polk &amp; wardwell llp (june 2001 to december 2005). keishi hotsuki (54) . executive vice president (since may 2014) and chief risk officer of morgan stanley (since may 2011). interim chief risk officer (january 2011 to may 2011) and head of market risk department (march 2008 to april 2014). director of mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities co., ltd. (since may 2010). global head of market risk management at merrill lynch (june 2005 to september 2007). december 2016 form 10-k 10 table of contents colm kelleher (59) . president of morgan stanley (since january 2016). executive vice president (october 2007 to january 2016). president of institutional securities (january 2013 to january 2016). head of international (january 2011 to january 2016). co-president of institutional securities (january 2010 to december 2012). chief financial officer and co-head of strategic planning (october 2007 to december 2009). head of global capital markets (february 2006 to october 2007). co-head of fixed income europe (may 2004 to february 2006). jonathan m. pruzan (48) . executive vice president and chief financial officer of morgan stanley (since may 2015). co-head of global financial institutions group (january 2010 to april 2015). co-head of north american financial institutions group m&amp;a (september 2007 to december 2009). head of the u.s. bank group (april 2005 to august 2007). daniel a. simkowitz (51) . head of investment management of morgan stanley (since october 2015). co-head of global capital markets (march 2013 to september 2015). chairman of global capital markets (november 2009 to march 2013). managing director in global capital markets (december 2000 to november 2009). 11 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results and strategic objectives, see forward-looking statements immediately preceding part i, item 1 and return on equity target and effects of inflation and changes in interest and foreign exchange rates under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7. market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a. our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors, including changes in asset values. our results of operations have been in the past and may, in the future, be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global financial markets, economic conditions, changes to the global trade policies and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. the value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees or carried interest) in respect of certain business. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions, market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements, or when market conditions are more favorable for our competitors. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. for further information regarding our country risk exposure, see also quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk country risk exposure in item 7a. december 2016 form 10-k 12 table of contents credit risk credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through our institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks and securities firms, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1. operational risk operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes or reporting, including in connection with new regulatory requirements, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated trading platforms has resulted in using increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing privacy and data protection, which may differ, and potentially conflict, in various jurisdictions. 13 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents as a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud. nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our lending. securities and derivatives transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo as well as mumbai, budapest, glasgow and baltimore. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical outage, environmental hazard, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion prevention and detection systems, monitoring firewalls and network traffic to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security given the techniques used in cyber attacks are complex and frequently change, and may not be able to be anticipated. like other financial services firms, the firm and its third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. these threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. there can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. if one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. while many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. in addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. december 2016 form 10-k 14 table of contents liquidity and funding risk liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk encompasses the risk that our financial condition or overall soundness is adversely affected by an inability or perceived inability to meet our financial obligations in a timely manner. it also includes the associated funding risks triggered by the market or idiosyncratic stress events that may cause unexpected changes in funding needs or an inability to raise new funding. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management liquidity and funding risk in part ii, item 7a. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the u.s. and other geographic areas, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or our industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment portfolios or trading assets, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies continue to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity and funding, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, including, for example, regulatory changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of third party support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc and other derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with our institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody investors services, inc. and s&amp;p global ratings. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources credit ratings incremental collateral or terminating payments upon potential future rating downgrade in part ii, item 7. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent company has no operations and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that limit, as well as authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce, the flow of funds to the parent company, or that prohibit such transfers or dividends altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of 15 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the firm and its u.s. bank subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economies. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. in particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. significant turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. legal, regulatory and compliance risk legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. this risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. it also includes compliance with aml, anti-corruption and terrorist financing rules and regulations. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, and changes in regulation will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. the regulation of major financial firms, including the firm, as well as of the markets in which we operate, is extensive and subject to ongoing change. we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) wide-ranging regulation and supervision, intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, limitations on new activities, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new requirements for maintaining minimum amounts of external total loss-absorbing capacity and external long-term debt, restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, comprehensive derivatives regulation, tax regulations, antitrust laws, trade and transaction reporting obligations, and broadened fiduciary obligations. in some areas, regulatory standards have not yet been finalized, are subject to final rulemaking or transition periods or may otherwise be revised in whole or in part. ongoing implementation of, or changes in, laws and regulations could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, regulatory requirements that are being imposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and may adversely affect us. we expect legal and regulatory requirements to be subject to ongoing change for the foreseeable future, which may result in significant new costs to comply with new or revised requirements as well as to monitor for compliance on an ongoing basis. the application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the united states or other jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for our security holders, and subject us to other restrictions. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, we are required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to jointly determine that our annual resolution plan submission was not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution, and if we were unable to address any defi- december 2016 form 10-k 16 table of contents ciencies identified by the regulators, we or any of our subsidiaries may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations, or after a two year period, we may be required to divest assets or operations. in addition, provided that certain procedures are met, we can be subject to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under title ii of the dodd-frank act with the fdic being appointed as receiver. the fdic power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the priority of creditor claims and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of our unsecured debt. see business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. further, because both our resolution plan contemplates a an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code and the fdic has proposed an spoe strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of an spoe strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. an spoe strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the parent company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy, and the parent company expects to enter into an amended and restated secured support agreement with its material subsidiaries pursuant to which it would provide such capital and liquidity. under the amended and restated support agreement, upon the occurrence of a resolution scenario, including one in which an spoe strategy is used, the parent company will be obligated to contribute or loan on a subordinated basis all of its material assets, other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company and certain intercompany payables, to provide capital and liquidity, as applicable, to its material subsidiaries. the obligations of the parent company under the amended and restated support agreement will be secured on a senior basis by the assets of the parent company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company). as a result, claims of our material subsidiaries against the assets of the parent company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company) will be effectively senior to unsecured obligations of the parent company. such unsecured obligations would be at risk of absorbing losses of the parent company and its subsidiaries. although an spoe strategy, whether applied pursuant to our resolution plan or in a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an spoe strategy, including the provision of support to the parent company material subsidiaries pursuant to the amended and restated secured support agreement, will not result in greater losses for holders of our securities compared to a different resolution strategy for the firm. regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. for example, the federal reserve has issued a final rule that requires top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. g-sibs, including morgan stanley, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt ( total loss-absorbing capacity or tlac ) in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible tlac where the spoe strategy is used. the combined implication of the spoe resolution strategy and the tlac final rule is that our losses will be imposed on the holders of eligible long-term debt and other forms of eligible tlac issued by the parent company before any losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of our operating subsidiaries or before putting u.s. taxpayers at risk. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and other e.u. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured creditors. non-u.s. regulators are also considering requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the parent company and, ultimately, to security holders of the parent company in the event of failure. we may be prevented from paying dividends or taking other capital actions because of regulatory constraints or revised regulatory capital standards. we are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the federal reserve, which requires us to submit, on an annual basis, a capital plan describing proposed dividend payments to shareholders, 17 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents proposed repurchases of our outstanding securities, and other proposed capital actions that we intend to take. the federal reserve may object to, or otherwise require us to modify, such plan, or may object or require modifications to a resubmitted capital plan, any of which would adversely affect shareholders. in addition, beyond review of the plan, the federal reserve may impose other restrictions or conditions on us that prevent us from paying or increasing dividends, repurchasing securities or taking other capital actions that would benefit shareholders. finally, the federal reserve may change regulatory capital standards to impose higher requirements that restrict our ability to take capital actions, or may modify or impose other regulatory standards that increase our operating expenses and reduce our ability to take capital actions. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory and law enforcement investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. investigations and proceedings initiated by these authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the firm, and certain u.s. and international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions, pleas or deferred prosecution agreements from, financial institutions. significant regulatory or law enforcement action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. in other cases, including antitrust litigation, we may be subject to claims for joint and several liability with other defendants for treble damages or other relief related to alleged conspiracies involving other institutions. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information, or improper sales practices or conduct. we may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. we originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities. for additional information, see also note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. we currently have several legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. if there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses substantially in excess of our reserves. in addition, our reserves are based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. if those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially. our commodities activities and investments subject us to extensive regulation, and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. in connection with the commodities activities in our institutional securities business segment, we engage in the storage, transportation, marketing and execution of transactions in several commodities, including metals, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, and other commodity products. in december 2016 form 10-k 18 table of contents addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the u.s. and own a minority interest in heidmar holdings llc , which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and u.s. marine logistics services. as a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. although we have attempted to mitigate our environmental risks by, among other measures, selling or ceasing most of our prior petroleum storage and transportation activities, adopting appropriate policies and procedures, and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. in addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events. during the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the u.s. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. in addition, new regulation of otc derivatives markets in the u.s. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. we may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. in addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. see also financial holding company capital standards commodities-related capital requirements under business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. a failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. as a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. for example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other, or situations in which we may be a creditor of a client. we have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address potential conflicts of interest. however, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. it is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. for example, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the federal reserve subjects us to direct federal reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our u.s. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates. further, the volcker rule subjects us to regulatory scrutiny regarding certain transactions between us and our clients. risk management our risk management strategies, models and processes may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management capabilities and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our risk management strategies, models and processes, including our use of various risk models for assessing market exposures and hedging strategies, stress testing and other analysis, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. as our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies, models and processes may not always adapt with those changes. some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management judgment. as a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, many models we use are based on assumptions or inputs regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators and therefore cannot anticipate sudden, unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements, which could cause us to incur losses. 19 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. for example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sales or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. we may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks and related strategies, models and processes, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management market risk in part ii, item 7a. competitive environment we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms, or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and, in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more informa- tion regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies, and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the december 2016 form 10-k 20 table of contents laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic or financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. the u.k. anticipated withdrawal from the e.u. could adversely affect us. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. electorate voted to leave the e.u. it is difficult to predict the future of the u.k. relationship with the e.u., which uncertainty may increase the volatility in the global financial markets in the short- and medium-term. the u.k. prime minister has confirmed the u.k. will invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty by no later than the end of march 2017, subject to the passing of necessary legislation by the u.k. parliament. this will trigger a two-year period, subject to extension, during which the u.k. government is expected to negotiate its withdrawal agreement with the e.u. absent any changes to this time schedule, the u.k. is expected to leave the e.u. in early 2019. the terms and conditions of the anticipated withdrawal from the e.u., and which of the several alternative models of relationship that the u.k. might seek to negotiate with the e.u., remain uncertain. however, the u.k. government has stated that the u.k. will leave the e.u. single market and will seek a phased period of implementation for the new relationship that may cover the legal and regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions with significant operations in europe, such as the firm. potential effects of the u.k. exit from the e.u. and potential mitigation actions may vary considerably depending on the timing of withdrawal and the nature of any transition or successor arrangements. any future limitations on providing financial services into the e.u. from our u.k. operations could require us to make potentially significant changes to our operations in the u.k. and europe and our legal structure there, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. acquisition, divestiture and joint venture risk we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes or strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes or strategic alliances (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or 21 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors, including changes in asset values. our results of operations have been in the past and may, in the future, be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global financial markets, economic conditions, changes to the global trade policies and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices. the results of our institutional securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. these fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our wealth management business segment. in addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our investment management business segment. the value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees or carried interest) in respect of certain business. in addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. in addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. moreover, under these conditions, market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. however, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements, or when market conditions are more favorable for our competitors. we commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. for further information regarding our country risk exposure, see also quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk country risk exposure in item 7a. december 2016 form 10-k 12 table of contents credit risk credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management credit risk in part ii, item 7a. we are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. we incur significant credit risk exposure through our institutional securities business segment. this risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we also incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. while we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. in addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. a default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. for example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the dodd-frank act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. as a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. this is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks and securities firms, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. see also systemic risk regime under business supervision and regulation financial holding company in part i, item 1. operational risk operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets). we may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under legal, regulatory and compliance risk. for more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management operational risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. in addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes or reporting, including in connection with new regulatory requirements, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated trading platforms has resulted in using increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. we perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. we rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions. additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing privacy and data protection, which may differ, and potentially conflict, in various jurisdictions. 13 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents as a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud. nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our lending. securities and derivatives transactions. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. in addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the new york metropolitan area, london, hong kong and tokyo as well as mumbai, budapest, glasgow and baltimore. this may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical outage, environmental hazard, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion prevention and detection systems, monitoring firewalls and network traffic to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security given the techniques used in cyber attacks are complex and frequently change, and may not be able to be anticipated. like other financial services firms, the firm and its third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. these threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. there can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. if one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners or counterparties personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers computer systems. furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties or third parties operations, which could result in reputational damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. while many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. in addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. december 2016 form 10-k 14 table of contents liquidity and funding risk liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. liquidity and funding risk encompasses the risk that our financial condition or overall soundness is adversely affected by an inability or perceived inability to meet our financial obligations in a timely manner. it also includes the associated funding risks triggered by the market or idiosyncratic stress events that may cause unexpected changes in funding needs or an inability to raise new funding. for more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in part ii, item 7 and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management liquidity and funding risk in part ii, item 7a. liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. liquidity is essential to our businesses. our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the u.s. and other geographic areas, could impair our ability to raise funding. in addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or our industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. if we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment portfolios or trading assets, to meet maturing liabilities. we may be unable to sell some of our assets or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend on our credit ratings. the cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. the rating agencies continue to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity and funding, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, including, for example, regulatory changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of third party support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as otc and other derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. in connection with certain otc trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with our institutional securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. the additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of moody investors services, inc. and s&amp;p global ratings. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources credit ratings incremental collateral or terminating payments upon potential future rating downgrade in part ii, item 7. we are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. the parent company has no operations and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. in particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that limit, as well as authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce, the flow of funds to the parent company, or that prohibit such transfers or dividends altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to ring fence entities by regulators outside of the u.s. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of 15 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents financial difficulties involving such entities. these laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the firm and its u.s. bank subsidiaries. our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by u.s. and international markets and economic conditions. our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the u.s. and international markets and economies. global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. in particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. significant turbulence in the u.s., the e.u. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. legal, regulatory and compliance risk legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. this risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty performance obligations will be unenforceable. it also includes compliance with aml, anti-corruption and terrorist financing rules and regulations. for more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management legal and compliance risk in part ii, item 7a. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, and changes in regulation will impact our business. like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by u.s. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. these laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. the regulation of major financial firms, including the firm, as well as of the markets in which we operate, is extensive and subject to ongoing change. we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) wide-ranging regulation and supervision, intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, limitations on new activities, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new requirements for maintaining minimum amounts of external total loss-absorbing capacity and external long-term debt, restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the volcker rule, comprehensive derivatives regulation, tax regulations, antitrust laws, trade and transaction reporting obligations, and broadened fiduciary obligations. in some areas, regulatory standards have not yet been finalized, are subject to final rulemaking or transition periods or may otherwise be revised in whole or in part. ongoing implementation of, or changes in, laws and regulations could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. in addition, regulatory requirements that are being imposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the u.s. and may adversely affect us. we expect legal and regulatory requirements to be subject to ongoing change for the foreseeable future, which may result in significant new costs to comply with new or revised requirements as well as to monitor for compliance on an ongoing basis. the application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the united states or other jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for our security holders, and subject us to other restrictions. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, we are required to submit to the federal reserve and the fdic an annual resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress or failure. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to jointly determine that our annual resolution plan submission was not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution, and if we were unable to address any defi- december 2016 form 10-k 16 table of contents ciencies identified by the regulators, we or any of our subsidiaries may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations, or after a two year period, we may be required to divest assets or operations. in addition, provided that certain procedures are met, we can be subject to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under title ii of the dodd-frank act with the fdic being appointed as receiver. the fdic power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the priority of creditor claims and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of our unsecured debt. see business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1 and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources regulatory requirements in part ii, item 7. further, because both our resolution plan contemplates a an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code and the fdic has proposed an spoe strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of an spoe strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. an spoe strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the parent company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy, and the parent company expects to enter into an amended and restated secured support agreement with its material subsidiaries pursuant to which it would provide such capital and liquidity. under the amended and restated support agreement, upon the occurrence of a resolution scenario, including one in which an spoe strategy is used, the parent company will be obligated to contribute or loan on a subordinated basis all of its material assets, other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company and certain intercompany payables, to provide capital and liquidity, as applicable, to its material subsidiaries. the obligations of the parent company under the amended and restated support agreement will be secured on a senior basis by the assets of the parent company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company). as a result, claims of our material subsidiaries against the assets of the parent company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company) will be effectively senior to unsecured obligations of the parent company. such unsecured obligations would be at risk of absorbing losses of the parent company and its subsidiaries. although an spoe strategy, whether applied pursuant to our resolution plan or in a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an spoe strategy, including the provision of support to the parent company material subsidiaries pursuant to the amended and restated secured support agreement, will not result in greater losses for holders of our securities compared to a different resolution strategy for the firm. regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an spoe strategy under the u.s. bankruptcy code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. for example, the federal reserve has issued a final rule that requires top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. g-sibs, including morgan stanley, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt ( total loss-absorbing capacity or tlac ) in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible tlac where the spoe strategy is used. the combined implication of the spoe resolution strategy and the tlac final rule is that our losses will be imposed on the holders of eligible long-term debt and other forms of eligible tlac issued by the parent company before any losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of our operating subsidiaries or before putting u.s. taxpayers at risk. in addition, certain jurisdictions, including the u.k. and other e.u. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity. such bail-in powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured creditors. non-u.s. regulators are also considering requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the parent company and, ultimately, to security holders of the parent company in the event of failure. we may be prevented from paying dividends or taking other capital actions because of regulatory constraints or revised regulatory capital standards. we are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the federal reserve, which requires us to submit, on an annual basis, a capital plan describing proposed dividend payments to shareholders, 17 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents proposed repurchases of our outstanding securities, and other proposed capital actions that we intend to take. the federal reserve may object to, or otherwise require us to modify, such plan, or may object or require modifications to a resubmitted capital plan, any of which would adversely affect shareholders. in addition, beyond review of the plan, the federal reserve may impose other restrictions or conditions on us that prevent us from paying or increasing dividends, repurchasing securities or taking other capital actions that would benefit shareholders. finally, the federal reserve may change regulatory capital standards to impose higher requirements that restrict our ability to take capital actions, or may modify or impose other regulatory standards that increase our operating expenses and reduce our ability to take capital actions. the financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory and law enforcement investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. as a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. investigations and proceedings initiated by these authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. the number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the firm, and certain u.s. and international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions, pleas or deferred prosecution agreements from, financial institutions. significant regulatory or law enforcement action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. the dodd-frank act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the sec or cftc with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. as a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the sec or cftc. we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. in some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. in other cases, including antitrust litigation, we may be subject to claims for joint and several liability with other defendants for treble damages or other relief related to alleged conspiracies involving other institutions. like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information, or improper sales practices or conduct. we may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. we originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. in connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. we have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities. for additional information, see also note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, competitive environment we face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. we compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the u.s., globally and through the internet. we compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms, or have declared bankruptcy. such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. we have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. in addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and, in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. for more informa- tion regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see business competition and business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. we have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. in particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. the trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. we have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. the financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. international risk we are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies, and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the december 2016 form 10-k 20 table of contents laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic or financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. these conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. the emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by ofac and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. a violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. the u.k. anticipated withdrawal from the e.u. could adversely affect us. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. electorate voted to leave the e.u. it is difficult to predict the future of the u.k. relationship with the e.u., which uncertainty may increase the volatility in the global financial markets in the short- and medium-term. the u.k. prime minister has confirmed the u.k. will invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty by no later than the end of march 2017, subject to the passing of necessary legislation by the u.k. parliament. this will trigger a two-year period, subject to extension, during which the u.k. government is expected to negotiate its withdrawal agreement with the e.u. absent any changes to this time schedule, the u.k. is expected to leave the e.u. in early 2019. the terms and conditions of the anticipated withdrawal from the e.u., and which of the several alternative models of relationship that the u.k. might seek to negotiate with the e.u., remain uncertain. however, the u.k. government has stated that the u.k. will leave the e.u. single market and will seek a phased period of implementation for the new relationship that may cover the legal and regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions with significant operations in europe, such as the firm. potential effects of the u.k. exit from the e.u. and potential mitigation actions may vary considerably depending on the timing of withdrawal and the nature of any transition or successor arrangements. any future limitations on providing financial services into the e.u. from our u.k. operations could require us to make potentially significant changes to our operations in the u.k. and europe and our legal structure there, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. acquisition, divestiture and joint venture risk we may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes or strategic alliances. in connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes or strategic alliances (including with mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. in the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. in addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. there is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or 21 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. these business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held. for more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also business supervision and regulation in part i, item 1. item 1b. unresolved staff comments we, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receive written comments from the staff of the sec regarding our periodic or current reports under the exchange act. there are no comments that remain unresolved that we received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that we believe are material. item 2. properties we have offices, operations and data centers located around the world. our properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. we believe the facilities we own or occupy are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. our principal offices include the following properties: location owned/ leased lease expiration approximate square footage as of december 31, 2016 1 u.s. locations 1585 broadway new york, new york (global headquarters and institutional securities headquarters) owned n/a 1,335,500 square feet 2000 westchester avenue purchase, new york (wealth management headquarters) owned n/a 626,100 square feet 522 fifth avenue new york, new york (investment management headquarters) owned n/a 564,900 square feet international locations 20 bank street london (london headquarters) leased 2038 546,500 square feet 1 austin road west kowloon (hong kong headquarters) leased 2019 499,900 square feet otemachi financial city south tower otemachi, chiyoda-ku (tokyo headquarters) leased 2028 245,600 square feet 1. the indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space leased by our branch offices. december 2016 form 10-k 22 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings in addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, the firm has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. in some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. the firm is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the firm business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the firm, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the firm contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the firm can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the firm accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. the firm future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period, given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the firm. in many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible, or to estimate the amount of any loss. the firm cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings or investigations will be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation. subject to the foregoing, the firm believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the firm, although the outcome of such proceedings or investigations could be material to the firm operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the firm revenues or income for such period. over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. as a result, the firm expects that it will continue to be the subject of elevated claims for damages and other relief and, while the firm has identified below certain proceedings that the firm believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material. residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters on july 15, 2010, china development industrial bank ( cdib ) filed a complaint against the firm, styled china development industrial bank v. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated et al ., which is pending in the supreme court of the state of new york, new york county ( supreme court of ny ). the complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the stack 2006-1 cdo. the complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the firm misrepresented the risks of the stack 2006-1 cdo to cdib, and that the firm knew that the assets backing the cdo were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with cdib. the complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that cdib alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of cdib obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs. on february 28, 2011, the court denied the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 7, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-4sl against the firm styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-4sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and warran- 23 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents ties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on august 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the complaint. on december 2, 2016, the firm moved for summary judgment and the plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment. on august 8, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-14sl, morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-4sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2007-4sl against the firm styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-14sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc ., pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. on august 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 16, 2016, the firm moved for summary judgment and the plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment. on september 28, 2012, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx against the firm styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-13arx v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., pending in the supreme court of ny. plaintiff filed an amended complaint on january 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. by order entered september 30, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which the plaintiff appealed. on august 11, 2016, the appellate division, first department reversed in part the trial court order that granted the firm motion to dismiss. on december 13, 2016, the appellate division granted the firm motion for leave to appeal to the new york court of appeals. the firm filed its opening letter brief with the court of appeals on february 6, 2017. on december 14, 2012, royal park investments sa/nv filed a complaint against the firm, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. merrill lynch et al. on october 24, 2013, plaintiff filed a new complaint against the firm in the supreme court of ny, styled royal park investments sa/nv v. morgan stanley et al. , alleging that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the firm to plaintiff was approximately $597 million. the complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, negligent misrepresentation, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. the plaintiff filed an amended complaint on december 1, 2015. on april 29, 2016, the firm filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. on january 10, 2013, u.s. bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl and mortgage pass-through certificates, series 2006-10sl against the firm styled morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2006-10sl, et al. v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor in interest to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the firm to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, and interest. on august 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on may 3, 2013, plaintiffs in deutsche zentral-genossenschaftsbank ag et al. v. morgan stanley et al. filed a complaint against the firm, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the firm to plaintiff was approximately $644 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the firm for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on june 10, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the complaint. the firm perfected its appeal from that decision on june 12, 2015. december 2016 form 10-k 24 table of contents on may 17, 2013, plaintiff in ikb international s.a. in liquidation, et al. v. morgan stanley, et al. filed a complaint against the firm and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the firm to plaintiff was approximately $132 million. the complaint alleges causes of action against the firm for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. on october 29, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss. all claims regarding four certificates were dismissed. after these dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the firm or sold to plaintiff by the firm was approximately $116 million. on august 11, 2016, the appellate division, first department affirmed the trial court order denying in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on july 2, 2013, deutsche bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 (msac 2007-nc1) v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, as trustee for the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc1 v. morgan stanley abs capital i, inc. on february 3, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.25 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the amended complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission and interest. on april 12, 2016, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the amended complaint, dismissing all claims except a single claim, regarding which the motion was denied without prejudice. on january 17, 2017, the first department affirmed the lower court april 12, 2016 order. on july 8, 2013, u.s. bank national association, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the firm styled u.s. bank national association, solely in its capacity as trustee of the morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-2ax (msm 2007-2ax) v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. and greenpoint mortgage funding, inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages and interest. on november 24, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 26, 2013, a complaint was filed against the firm and certain affiliates in the supreme court of ny, styled phoenix light sf limited et al v. morgan stanley et al ., which was amended on april 23, 2015. the amended complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs, or their assignors, of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the firm and/or sold to plaintiffs or their assignors by the firm was approximately $344 million. the amended complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation and rescission based on mutual mistake and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages, punitive damages or alternatively rescission or rescissionary damages associated with the purchase of such certificates. on april 23, 2015, the court granted the firm motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on may 21, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of that order. on november 6, 2013, deutsche bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in federal housing finance agency, as conservator for the federal home loan mortgage corporation, on behalf of the trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 (msac 2007-nc3) v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc , and filed a complaint in the supreme court of ny under the caption deutsche bank national trust company, solely in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust, series 2007-nc3 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc, as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.3 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission, interest and costs. on april 12, 2016, the court granted the firm motion 25 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents to dismiss the complaint, and granted the plaintiff the ability to seek to replead certain aspects of the complaint. on may 25, 2016, deutsche bank filed a notice of appeal of that order. on january 17, 2017, the first department affirmed the lower court order granting the motion to dismiss the complaint. on december 30, 2013, wilmington trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley mortgage loan trust 2007-12, filed a complaint against the firm styled wilmington trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc et al. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, interest and costs. on june 14, 2016, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on august 17, 2016, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of that order. on april 28, 2014, deutsche bank national trust company, in its capacity as trustee for morgan stanley structured trust i 2007-1, filed a complaint against the firm styled deutsche bank national trust company v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc , pending in the united states district court for the southern district of new york ( sdny ). the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. on april 3, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on september 19, 2014, financial guaranty insurance company ( fgic ) filed a complaint against the firm in the supreme court of ny, styled financial guaranty insurance company v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. et al. relating to a securitization issued by basket of aggregated residential nims 2007-1 ltd. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the net interest margin securities ( nims ) in the trust breached various representations and warranties. fgic issued a financial guaranty policy with respect to certain notes that had an original balance of approximately $475 million. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the nims breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, reimbursement of certain payments made pursuant to the transaction documents, attorneys fees and interest. on november 24, 2014, the firm filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which the court denied on january 19, 2017. on september 23, 2014, fgic filed a complaint against the firm in the supreme court of ny styled financial guaranty insurance company v. morgan stanley abs capital i inc. et al . relating to the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust 2007-nc4. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties and defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to induce fgic to issue a financial guaranty policy on certain classes of certificates that had an original balance of approximately $876 million. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential and punitive damages, attorneys fees and interest. on january 23, 2017, the court denied the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on january 23, 2015, deutsche bank national trust company, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the firm styled deutsche bank national trust company solely in its capacity as trustee of the morgan stanley abs capital i inc. trust 2007-nc4 v. morgan stanley mortgage capital holdings llc as successor-by-merger to morgan stanley mortgage capital inc., and morgan stanley abs capital i inc. , pending in the supreme court of ny. the complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. the complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential, rescissory, equitable and punitive damages, attorneys fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. on december 11, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the firm motion to dismiss the complaint. on february 11, 2016, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of that order. on april 1, 2016, the california attorney general office filed an action against the firm in california state court styled california v. morgan stanley, et al. , on behalf of california investors, including the california public employees retirement system and the california teachers retirement system. the complaint alleges that the firm made misrepresentations and omissions regarding residential mortgage-backed securities and notes issued by the cheyne siv, and asserts violations of the california false claims act and other state laws and seeks treble damages, civil penalties, disgorgement, and injunctive relief. on september 30, 2016, the court granted the firm demurrer, with leave to replead. on october 21, 2016, the california attorney general filed december 2016 form 10-k 26 table of contents an amended complaint. on january 25, 2017, the court denied the firm demurrer with respect to the amended complaint. currency related matters the firm is responding to a number of regulatory and governmental inquiries both in the united states and abroad related to its foreign exchange business. in addition, on june 29, 2015, the firm and a number of other financial institutions were named as respondents in a proceeding before brazil council for economic defense related to alleged anticompetitive activity in the foreign exchange market for the brazilian real. the firm, as well as other foreign exchange dealers, are defendants in in re foreign exchange benchmark rates antitrust litigation , pending in the sdny. on july 16, 2015, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint generally alleging that defendants engaged in a conspiracy to fix, maintain or make artificial prices for key benchmark rates, to manipulate bid/ask spreads, and, by their behavior in the over-the-counter market, to thereby cause corresponding manipulation in the foreign exchange futures market. plaintiffs seek declaratory relief as well as treble damages in an unspecified amount. on december 16, 2016, the firm and plaintiffs reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation with respect to the firm. after it is finalized by the parties, the settlement will be subject to court approval. european matters on june 26, 2006, the public prosecutor in parma, italy brought criminal charges against certain present and former employees of the firm related to the bankruptcy of parmalat in 2003. the trial commenced in september 2009 and the evidence phase concluded in january 2017. a verdict is expected during the course of 2017. while the firm is not a defendant in the criminal proceeding, certain investors have asserted civil claims against the firm related to the proceedings. these claims seek, among other relief, moral damages and loss of opportunity damages related to their purchase of approximately 327 million in bonds issued by parmalat. in addition, on october 11, 2011, an italian financial institution, banco popolare societ&aacute; cooperativa ( banco popolare ), filed a civil claim against the firm in the milan courts, styled banco popolare societ&aacute; cooperativa v morgan stanley &amp; co. international plc &amp; others (file number 63671/2011), related to its purchase of 100 million of bonds issued by parmalat. the claim asserted by banco popolare alleges, among other things, that the firm was aware of parmalat impending insolvency and conspired with others to deceive banco popolare into buying bonds by concealing both parmalat true financial condition and certain features of the bonds from the market and banco popolare. banco popolare seeks damages of 76 million (approximately $80 million) plus damages for loss of opportunity and moral damages. the firm filed its answer on april 20, 2012, and the hearing on the parties final submissions is scheduled for march 20, 2018. on may 12, 2016, the austrian state of land salzburg filed a claim against the firm in the regional court in frankfurt, germany, styled land salzburg v. morgan stanley &amp; co. international plc (the german proceedings ) seeking 209 million (approximately $220 million) plus interest, attorneys fees and other relief relating to certain fixed income and commodities derivative transactions which land salzburg entered into with the firm between 2005 and 2012. land salzburg has alleged that it had neither the capacity nor authority to enter into such transactions, which should be set aside, and that the firm breached certain advisory and other duties which the firm had owed to it. on april 28, 2016, the firm filed an action against land salzburg in the high court in london, england styled morgan stanley capital services llc and morgan stanley &amp; co. international plc v. land salzburg (the english proceedings ) in which the firm is seeking declarations that land salzburg had both the capacity and authority to enter into the transactions, and that the firm has no liability to land salzburg arising from them. on july 25, 2016, the firm filed an application with the regional court in frankfurt to stay the german proceedings on the basis that the high court in london was first seized of the dispute between the parties and, pending determination of that application, filed its statement of defense on december 23, 2016. on december 8, 2016, land salzburg filed an application with the high court in london challenging its jurisdiction to determine the english proceedings. on july 11, 2016, the firm received an invitation to respond to a proposed claim ( proposed claim ) by the public prosecutor for court of accounts for the republic of italy. the proposed claim relates to certain derivative transactions between the republic of italy and the firm. the transactions were originally entered into between 1999 and 2005, and were terminated in december 2011 and january 2012. the proposed claim alleges, inter alia, that the firm was acting as an agent of the republic of italy, that some or all of the derivative transactions were improper and that the termination of the transactions was also improper. the proposed claim indicates that, if a proceeding is initiated against the firm, the public prosecutor would be asserting administrative claims against the firm for 2.879 billion (approximately $3 billion). the firm does not agree with the proposed claim and presented its defenses to the public prosecutor. 27 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents other litigation on october 20, 2014, a purported class action complaint was filed against the firm and other defendants styled genesee county employees retirement system v. bank of america corporation et al. in the sdny. the action was later consolidated with four similar actions in sdny under the lead case styled alaska electrical pension fund v. bank of america corporation et al. a consolidated amended complaint was filed on february 2, 2015 asserting claims for alleged violations of the sherman act, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust enrichment, and tortious interference with contract. the consolidated amended complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants engaged in antitrust violations with regards to the process of setting isdafix, a financial benchmark and seeks treble damages, injunctive relief, attorneys fees and other relief. on march 28, 2016, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. on february 7, 2017, the plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended complaint. the following matters were terminated during or following the quarter ended december 31, 2016: on december 23, 2009, the federal home loan bank of seattle filed a complaint against the firm and another defendant in the superior court of the state of washington, styled federal home loan bank of seattle v. morgan stanley &amp; co. inc., et al. the amended complaint, filed on september 28, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the firm was approximately $233 million. the complaint raises claims under the washington state securities act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on january 23, 2017, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation. on march 15, 2010, the federal home loan bank of san francisco filed a complaint against the firm and other defendants in the superior court of the state of california styled federal home loan bank of san francisco v. deutsche bank securities inc. et al. an amended complaint, filed on june 10, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. the amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the firm was approximately $276 million. the complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and california law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff purchase of such certificates. on december 21, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation. on january 25, 2011, the firm was named as a defendant in the bank of new york mellon trust, national association v. morgan stanley mortgage capital, inc., a litigation pending in the sdny. the suit, brought by the trustee of a series of commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, alleges that the firm breached certain representations and warranties with respect to an $81 million commercial mortgage loan that was originated and transferred to the trust by the firm in 2007. the complaint seeks, among other things, to have the firm repurchase the loan and pay additional monetary damages, and interest. on february 17, 2017, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. december 2016 form 10-k 28 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities morgan stanley common stock trades under the symbol ms on the new york stock exchange. as of february 17, 2017, we had 64,798 holders of record; however, we believe the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number. the table below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of our common stock and the amount of dividends declared per common share by our board of directors for such quarter. 2016 2015 high low dividend declared per common share high low dividend declared per common share first quarter $ 31.70 $ 21.16 $ 0.15 $ 39.15 $ 33.72 $ 0.10 second quarter 28.29 23.11 0.15 40.26 35.36 0.15 third quarter 32.44 24.57 0.20 41.04 30.40 0.15 fourth quarter 44.04 30.96 0.20 35.74 30.15 0.15 the following table sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by us or on our behalf of our common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended december 31, 2016. issuer purchases of equity securities $ in millions, except per share data total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs 1 approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs month #1 (october 1, 2016-october 31, 2016) share repurchase program 2 4,857,000 $ 33.28 4,857,000 $ 2,088 employee transactions 3 63,861 $ 32.21 month #2 (november 1, 2016-november 30, 2016) share repurchase program 2 14,074,500 $ 36.09 14,074,500 $ 1,580 employee transactions 3 196,639 $ 39.10 month #3 (december 1, 2016-december 31, 2016) share repurchase program 2 7,751,467 $ 42.63 7,751,467 $ 1,250 employee transactions 3 337,765 $ 42.91 quarter ended december 31, 2016 share repurchase program 2 26,682,967 $ 37.48 26,682,967 $ 1,250 employee transactions 3 598,265 $ 40.52 1. share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices we deem appropriate and may be suspended at any time. 2. our board of directors has authorized the repurchase of our outstanding stock under a share repurchase program (the share repurchase program ). the share repurchase program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as stock-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. the share repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date. share repurchases are subject to regulatory approval. in june 2016, we received a conditional non-objection from the federal reserve to our 2016 capital plan, which included a share repurchase of up to $3.5 billion of our outstanding common stock during the period beginning july 1, 2016 through june 30, 2017. during the quarter ended december 31, 2016, we repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of our outstanding common stock as part of our share repurchase program. for further information, see liquidity and capital resources capital management in part ii, item 7. 3. includes shares acquired by us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligations on stock-based awards and the exercise of stock options granted under our stock-based compensation plans. 29 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents stock performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of our common stock, the standard &amp; poor 500 ( s&amp;p 500 ) stock index and the s&amp;p 500 financials index for the last five years. the graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on december 31, 2011 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. this graph does not forecast future performance of our common stock. cumulative total return december 31, 2011 december 31, 2016 at december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 morgan stanley $ 100.00 $ 127.93 $ 211.50 $ 264.56 $ 220.24 $ 299.66 s&amp;p 500 stock index 100.00 115.99 153.55 174.55 176.95 198.10 s&amp;p 500 financials index 100.00 128.75 174.57 201.07 197.92 242.94 december 2016 form 10-k 30 table of contents item 6. selected financial data morgan stanley selected financial data $ in millions 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 income statement data revenues: total non-interest revenues $ 30,933 $ 32,062 $ 32,540 $ 31,715 $ 26,383 interest income 7,016 5,835 5,413 5,209 5,692 interest expense 3,318 2,742 3,678 4,431 5,897 net interest 3,698 3,093 1,735 778 (205 ) net revenues 34,631 35,155 34,275 32,493 26,178 non-interest expenses: compensation and benefits 15,878 16,016 17,824 16,277 15,615 other 9,905 10,644 12,860 11,658 9,967 total non-interest expenses 25,783 26,660 30,684 27,935 25,582 income from continuing operations before income taxes 8,848 8,495 3,591 4,558 596 provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2,726 2,200 (90 ) 902 (161 ) income from continuing operations 6,122 6,295 3,681 3,656 757 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 1 (16 ) (14 ) (43 ) (41 ) net income 6,123 6,279 3,667 3,613 716 net income applicable to redeemable non- controlling interests 222 124 net income applicable to nonredeemable non- controlling interests 144 152 200 459 524 net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 5,979 $ 6,127 $ 3,467 $ 2,932 $ 68 preferred stock dividends and other 471 456 315 277 98 earnings (loss) applicable to morgan stanley common shareholders 1 $ 5,508 $ 5,671 $ 3,152 $ 2,655 $ (30 ) amounts applicable to morgan stanley: income from continuing operations $ 5,978 $ 6,143 $ 3,481 $ 2,975 $ 138 income (loss) from discontinued operations 1 (16 ) (14 ) (43 ) (70 ) net income applicable to morgan stanley $ 5,979 $ 6,127 $ 3,467 $ 2,932 $ 68 in millions, except per share amounts 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 per share data earnings (loss) per basic common share 2 : income from continuing operations $ 2.98 $ 2.98 $ 1.65 $ 1.42 $ 0.02 income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (0.03 ) (0.04 ) earnings (loss) per basic common share $ 2.98 $ 2.97 $ 1.64 $ 1.39 $ (0.02 ) earnings (loss) per diluted common share 2 : income from continuing operations $ 2.92 $ 2.91 $ 1.61 $ 1.38 $ 0.02 income (loss) from discontinued operations (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (0.02 ) (0.04 ) earnings (loss) per diluted common share $ 2.92 $ 2.90 $ 1.60 $ 1.36 $ (0.02 ) book value per common share 3 $ 36.99 $ 35.24 $ 33.25 $ 32.24 $ 30.70 common shares outstanding at december 31 st 1,852 1,920 1,951 1,945 1,974 dividends declared per common share 0.70 0.55 0.35 0.20 0.20 average common shares outstanding 1 : basic 1,849 1,909 1,924 1,906 1,886 diluted 1,887 1,953 1,971 1,957 1,919 balance sheet and other operating data trading assets $ 262,154 $ 239,505 $ 278,117 $ 301,252 $ 281,881 loans 4 94,248 85,759 66,577 42,874 29,046 total assets 814,949 787,465 801,510 832,702 780,960 total deposits 155,863 156,034 133,544 112,379 83,266 long-term borrowings 164,775 153,768 152,772 153,575 169,571 morgan stanley shareholders equity 76,050 75,182 70,900 65,921 62,109 common shareholders equity 68,530 67,662 64,880 62,701 60,601 return on average common equity 5 8.0 % 8.5 % 4.8 % 4.3 % n/m n/m not meaningful 1. amounts shown are used to calculate earnings (loss) per basic and diluted common share. 2. for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share, see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, for further discussion about loans and lending commitments, see notes 7 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements in our binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under (i) the standardized approaches for calculating credit risk and market risk rwas (the standardized approach ) and (ii) the applicable advanced approaches for calculating credit risk, market risk and operational risk rwas (the advanced approach ). at december 31, 2016, our binding ratios are based on the advanced approach transitional rules. the methods for calculating each of our risk-based capital ratios will change through january 1, 2022 as aspects of the capital rules are phased in. these changes may result in differences in our reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to our capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile. 65 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents management discussion and analysis minimum risk-based capital ratios: transitional provisions 1. these ratios assume the requirements for the g-sib capital surcharge (3.0%) and ccyb (zero) remain at current levels. see total loss-absorbing capacity, long-term debt and clean holding company requirements herein for additional capital requirements effective january 1, 2019. december 2016 form 10-k 66 table of contents management discussion and analysis transitional and fully phased-in regulatory capital ratios at december 31, 2016 transitional pro forma fully phased-in $ in millions standardized advanced standardized advanced risk-based capital common equity tier 1 capital $ 60,398 $ 60,398 $ 58,616 $ 58,616 tier 1 capital 68,097 68,097 66,315 66,315 total capital 78,917 78,642 77,155 76,881 total rwas 340,191 358,141 351,101 369,709 common equity tier 1 capital ratio 17.8 % 16.9 % 16.7 % 15.9 % tier 1 capital ratio 20.0 % 19.0 % 18.9 % 17.9 % total capital ratio 23.2 % 22.0 % 22.0 % 20.8 % leverage-based capital adjusted average assets 1 $ 811,402 n/a $ 810,288 n/a tier 1 leverage ratio 2 8.4 % n/a 8.2 % n/a at december 31, 2015 transitional pro forma fully phased-in $ in millions standardized advanced standardized advanced risk-based capital common equity tier 1 capital $ 59,409 $ 59,409 $ 55,441 $ 55,441 tier 1 capital 66,722 66,722 63,000 63,000 total capital 79,663 79,403 73,858 73,598 total rwas 362,920 384,162 373,421 395,277 common equity tier 1 capital ratio 16.4 % 15.5 % 14.8 % 14.0 % tier 1 capital ratio 18.4 % 17.4 % 16.9 % 15.9 % total capital ratio 22.0 % 20.7 % 19.8 % 18.6 % leverage-based capital adjusted average assets 1 $ 803,574 n/a $ 801,346 n/a tier 1 leverage ratio 2 8.3 % n/a 7.9 % n/a n/a not applicable 1. adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under u.s. gaap during the calendar quarter ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments. 2. the minimum tier 1 leverage ratio requirement is 4.0%. the fully phased-in pro forma estimates in the previous tables are based on our current understanding of the capital rules and other factors, which may be subject to change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance from the federal reserve and as the interpretation of the regulations evolves over time. these fully phased-in pro forma estimates are non-gaap financial measures that we consider to be useful measures for us, investors and analysts in evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that were not yet effective at december 31, 2016. these preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should not be taken as a projection of what our capital, capital ratios, rwas, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. well-capitalized minimum regulatory capital ratios for u.s. bank subsidiaries at december 31, 2016 common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 6.5% tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 8.0% total risk-based capital ratio 10.0% tier 1 leverage ratio 5.0% for us to remain a financial holding company, our u.s. bank subsidiaries must qualify as well-capitalized by maintaining the minimum ratio requirements set forth in the previous table. the federal reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards required for us under the capital rules. assuming that the federal reserve would apply the same or very similar well-capitalized standards to financial holding companies, each of our risk-based capital ratios and tier 1 leverage ratio at december 31, 2016 would have exceeded the revised well-capitalized standard. the federal reserve may require us to maintain risk- and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. 67 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents management discussion and analysis regulatory capital calculated under advanced approach transitional rules $ in millions at december 31, 2016 at december 31, 2015 common equity tier 1 capital common stock and surplus $ 17,494 $ 20,114 retained earnings 53,679 49,204 aoci (2,643 ) (1,656 ) regulatory adjustments and deductions: net goodwill (6,526 ) (6,582 ) net intangible assets (other than goodwill and mortgage servicing assets) (1,631 ) (1,192 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (271 ) (202 ) net deferred tax assets (304 ) (675 ) net after-tax dva 1 357 156 adjustments related to aoci 422 411 other adjustments and deductions (179 ) (169 ) total common equity tier 1 capital $ 60,398 $ 59,409 additional tier 1 capital preferred stock $ 7,520 $ 7,520 trust preferred securities 702 noncontrolling interests 613 678 regulatory adjustments and deductions: net deferred tax assets (202 ) (1,012 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (181 ) (303 ) net after-tax dva 1 238 233 other adjustments and deductions (101 ) (253 ) additional tier 1 capital $ 7,887 $ 7,565 deduction for investments in covered funds (188 ) (252 ) total tier 1 capital $ 68,097 $ 66,722 tier 2 capital subordinated debt $ 10,303 $ 10,404 trust preferred securities 2,106 other qualifying amounts 62 35 regulatory adjustments and deductions 180 136 total tier 2 capital $ 10,545 $ 12,681 total capital $ 78,642 $ 79,403 rollforward of regulatory capital calculated under advanced approach transitional rules $ in millions 2016 common equity tier 1 capital common equity tier 1 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 59,409 change related to the following items: value of shareholders common equity 868 net goodwill 56 net intangible assets (other than goodwill and mortgage servicing assets) (439 ) credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities (69 ) net deferred tax assets 371 net after-tax dva 1 201 adjustments related to aoci 11 other deductions and adjustments (10 ) common equity tier 1 capital at december 31, 2016 $ 60,398 additional tier 1 capital additional tier 1 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 7,565 change related to the following items: trust preferred securities (702 ) noncontrolling interests (65 ) net deferred tax assets 810 credit spread premium over risk-free rate for derivative liabilities 122 net after-tax dva 1 5 other adjustments and deductions 152 additional tier 1 capital at december 31, 2016 7,887 deduction for investments in covered funds at december 31, 2015 (252 ) deduction for investments in covered funds 64 deduction for investments in covered funds at december 31, 2016 (188 ) tier 1 capital at december 31, 2016 $ 68,097 tier 2 capital tier 2 capital at december 31, 2015 $ 12,681 change related to the following items: subordinated debt (101 ) trust preferred securities (2,106 ) noncontrolling interests 27 other adjustments and deductions 44 tier 2 capital at december 31, 2016 $ 10,545 total capital at december 31, 2016 $ 78,642 1. in connection with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities , related to dva, the aggregate balance of net after-tax valuation adjustments was reduced by $77 million as of january 1, 2016. december 2016 form 10-k 68 table of contents management discussion and analysis rollforward of rwas calculated under advanced approach transitional rules $ in millions 2016 1 credit risk rwas balance at december 31, 2015 $ 173,586 change related to the following items: derivatives (446 ) securities financing transactions 745 other counterparty credit risk 45 securitizations (1,997 ) credit valuation adjustment 1,023 investment securities 1,183 loans (1,792 ) cash 757 equity investments (2,908 ) other credit risk 2 (965 ) total change in credit risk rwas $ (4,355 ) balance at december 31, 2016 $ 169,231 market risk rwas balance at december 31, 2015 $ 71,476 change related to the following items: regulatory var (2,094 ) regulatory stressed var (1,286 ) incremental risk charge 292 comprehensive risk measure (2,763 ) specific risk: non-securitizations (654 ) securitizations (4,099 ) total change in market risk rwas $ (10,604 ) balance at december 31, 2016 $ 60,872 operational risk rwas balance at december 31, 2015 $ 139,100 change in operational risk rwas 3 (11,062 ) balance at december 31, 2016 $ 128,038 total rwas $ 358,141 var value-at-risk 1. the rwas for each category in the table reflect both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, where appropriate. 2. amount reflects assets not in a defined category, non-material portfolios of exposures and unsettled transactions. 3. amount reflects a reduction in the internal loss data related to litigation utilized in the operational risk capital model. supplementary leverage ratio we and our u.s. bank subsidiaries are required to publicly disclose our supplementary leverage ratios, which will become effective as a capital standard on january 1, 2018. by january 1, 2018, we must also maintain a tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of at least 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of at least 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. in addition, beginning in 2018, our u.s. bank subsidiaries must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered well-capitalized. pro forma supplementary leverage exposure and ratio on a transitional basis $ in millions at december 31, 2016 at december 31, 2015 average total assets 1 $ 820,536 $ 813,715 adjustments 2, 3 242,113 284,090 pro forma supplementary leverage exposure $ 1,062,649 $ 1,097,805 pro forma supplementary leverage ratio 6.4% 6.1% 1. computed as the average daily balance of consolidated total assets under u.s. gaap during the calendar quarter ended december 31, 2016 and 2015. 2. computed as the arithmetic mean of the month-end balances over the calendar quarter ended december 31, 2016 and 2015. 3. adjustments are to: (i) incorporate derivative exposures, including adding the related potential future exposure (including for derivatives cleared for clients), grossing up cash collateral netting where qualifying criteria are not met and adding the effective notional principal amount of sold credit protection offset by qualifying purchased credit protection; (ii) reflect the counterparty credit risk for repo-style transactions; (iii) add the credit equivalent amount for off-balance sheet exposures; and (iv) apply other adjustments to tier 1 capital, including disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets and certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions. based on our current understanding of the rules and other factors, we estimate our pro forma fully phased-in supplementary leverage ratio to be approximately 6.2% at december 31, 2016 and 5.8% at december 31, 2015. these estimates utilize a fully phased-in tier 1 capital numerator and a fully phased-in denominator of approximately $1,061.5 billion at december 31, 2016 and $1,095.6 billion at december 31, 2015, which takes into consideration the tier 1 capital deductions that would be applicable in 2018 after the phase-in period has ended. u.s. subsidiary banks pro forma supplementary leverage ratios on a transitional basis at december 31, 2016 at december 31, 2015 msbna 7.7 % 7.3% mspbna 10.2 % 10.3% the pro forma supplementary leverage exposures and pro forma supplementary leverage ratios, both on transitional and fully phased-in bases, are non-gaap financial measures that we consider to be useful measures for us, investors and analysts in evaluating prospective compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. our estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from estimates based on these regulations. further, these expectations should not be taken as projections of what our supplementary leverage ratios, earnings, assets or exposures will actually be at future dates. for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. 69 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents management discussion and analysis g-sib capital surcharge we and other u.s. g-sibs are subject to a risk-based capital surcharge. a g-sib must calculate its g-sib capital surcharge under two methods and use the higher of the two surcharges. the first method considers the g-sib size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the basel committee ( method 1 ). the second method uses similar inputs, but replaces substitutability with the use of short-term wholesale funding ( method 2 ) and generally results in higher surcharges than the first method. the g-sib capital surcharge must be satisfied using common equity tier 1 capital and functions as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. our current g-sib surcharge is 3%. the surcharge is being phased in between january 1, 2016 and january 1, 2019, and the phase-in amount for 2017 is 50% of the applicable surcharge (see minimum risk-based capital ratios: transitional provisions herein). total loss-absorbing capacity, long-term debt and clean holding company requirements on december 15, 2016, the federal reserve adopted a final rule for top-tier bank holding companies of u.s. g-sibs ( covered bhcs ), including the parent company, that establishes external tlac, long-term debt ( ltd ) and clean holding company requirements. the final rule contains various definitions and restrictions, such as requiring eligible ltd to be issued by the covered bhc and be unsecured, have a maturity of one year or more from the date of issuance and not have certain derivative-linked features, typically associated with certain types of structured notes. covered bhcs must comply with all requirements under the rule by january 1, 2019, which we expect to accomplish. the main purpose of the federal reserve minimum external tlac and ltd requirements is to ensure that covered bhcs, including the parent company, will have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of eligible ltd to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible ltd or other forms of tlac where a single point of entry ( spoe ) resolution strategy is used (see business supervision and regulation financial holding company resolution and recovery planning in part i, item 1 and risk factors legal, regulatory and compliance risk in part i, item 1a). under the final rule, a covered bhc is required to maintain minimum external tlac equal to the greater of 18% of total rwas and 7.5% of its total leverage exposure (the denominator of its supplementary leverage ratio). in addition, covered bhcs must meet a separate external ltd requirement equal to the greater of 6% of total rwas plus the greater of the method 1 and method 2 g-sib capital surcharge applicable to the parent company and 4.5% of its total leverage exposure. in addition, the final rule imposes tlac buffer requirements on top of both the risk-based and leverage-exposure-based external tlac minimum requirements. the risk-based tlac buffer is equal to the sum of 2.5%, the covered bhc method 1 g-sib surcharge and the countercyclical capital buffer, if any, as a percentage of total rwas. the leverage-exposure-based tlac buffer is equal to 2% of the covered bhc total leverage exposure. failure to maintain the tlac buffers would result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. the final rule provides permanent grandfathering for debt instruments issued prior to december 31, 2016 that would be eligible ltd but for having impermissible acceleration clauses or being governed by foreign law. furthermore, under the clean holding company requirements of the final rule, a covered bhc is prohibited from incurring any external short-term debt or certain other liabilities, regardless of whether the liabilities are fully secured or otherwise senior to eligible ltd, or entering into certain other prohibited transactions. certain other external liabilities, including structured notes, are subject to a cap equal to 5% of the covered bhc outstanding external tlac amount. capital plans and stress tests pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the federal reserve annual comprehensive capital analysis and review ( ccar ) framework. we must submit an annual capital plan to the federal reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and the federal reserve, so that the federal reserve may assess our systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain our internal capital adequacy. the capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution ( i.e. , payments of dividends or stock repurchases) and any similar action that the federal reserve determines could impact our consolidated capital. the capital plan must include a discussion of how we will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the requirements that are phased in over the planning horizon, and serve as a source of strength to our u.s. bank subsidiaries under supervisory stress scenarios. in december 2016 form 10-k 70 table of contents management discussion and analysis addition, the federal reserve has issued guidance setting out its heightened expectations for capital planning practices at certain large financial institutions, including us. in november 2015, the federal reserve amended its capital plan and stress test rules to delay until 2017 the use of the supplementary leverage ratio requirement, defer indefinitely the use of the advanced approach risk-based capital framework in capital planning and company-run stress tests, and incorporate the tier 1 capital deductions for certain investments in volcker rule covered funds into the pro forma minimum capital requirements for capital plan and stress testing purposes. the capital plan rule requires that large bank holding companies receive no objection from the federal reserve before making a capital distribution. in addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the federal reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. a bank holding company ability to make capital distributions (other than scheduled payments on additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital instruments) is also limited if its net capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan. in addition, we must conduct semiannual company-run stress tests and are subject to an annual dodd-frank act supervisory stress test conducted by the federal reserve. on april 5, 2016, we submitted our 2016 ccar capital plan, and summary results of the ccar and dodd-frank act supervisory stress tests were published by the federal reserve in june. we exceeded all stressed capital ratio minimum requirements in the federal reserve severely adverse scenario, and our quantitative capital results improved from our prior-year submission. in june 2016, we received a conditional non-objection from the federal reserve to our 2016 capital plan (see capital management herein). on december 29, 2016, we resubmitted our capital plan, as required by the federal reserve, to address weaknesses identified in our capital planning process. future capital distributions may be restricted if these identified weaknesses are not satisfactorily addressed when the federal reserve reviews our resubmitted capital plan. pursuant to the conditional non-objection, we are able to execute the capital actions set forth in our 2016 capital plan, which included increasing our common stock dividend to $0.20 per share beginning in the third quarter of 2016 and executing share repurchases of $3.5 billion during the period july 1, 2016 through june 30, 2017. in addition, we submitted the results of our mid-cycle company-run stress test to the federal reserve on october 5, 2016, and we disclosed a summary of the results on october 31, 2016. for the 2017 capital planning and stress test cycle, we are required to submit our capital plan and company-run stress test results to the federal reserve by april 5, 2017. we expect that the federal reserve will provide its response to our 2017 capital plan by june 30, 2017. the federal reserve is expected to publish summary results of the ccar and dodd-frank act supervisory stress tests of each large bank holding company, including us, by june 30, 2017. we are required to disclose a summary of the results of our company-run stress tests within 15 days of the date the federal reserve discloses the results of the supervisory stress tests. in addition, we must submit the results of our mid-cycle company-run stress test to the federal reserve by october 5, 2017 and disclose a summary of the results between october 5, 2017 and november 4, 2017. in january 2017, the federal reserve adopted revisions to the capital plan and stress test rules that, among other things, reduce the de minimis threshold for additional capital distributions that a firm may make during a capital plan cycle without seeking the federal reserve prior approval. the final rule also establishes a blackout period beginning in march of each year while the federal reserve is conducting ccar reviews during which firms are not permitted to submit de minimis exception notices or prior approval requests for additional capital distributions. the federal reserve is currently considering making further changes to ccar requirements, which may increase minimum capital requirements for the firm. the dodd-frank act also requires each of our u.s. bank subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. msbna and mspbna submitted their 2016 annual company-run stress tests to the occ on april 5, 2016 and published a summary of their stress test results on june 23, 2016. for the 2017 stress test cycle, msbna and mspbna must submit their 2017 annual company-run stress tests to the occ by april 5, 2017 and publish the summary results between june 15, 2017 and july 15, 2017. attribution of average common equity according to the required capital framework our required capital ( required capital ) estimation is based on the required capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the required capital framework, as well as each business segment relative contribution to our total required capital. required capital is assessed for each business segment and further attributed to product lines. this process is intended to align capital with the 71 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents management discussion and analysis risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. the required capital framework is a risk-based and leverage use-of-capital measure, which is compared with our regulatory capital to ensure that we maintain an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from stress events, where applicable, at a point in time. we define the difference between our total average common equity and the sum of the average common equity amounts allocated to our business segments as parent company equity. we generally hold parent company equity for prospective regulatory requirements, organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs. effective january 1, 2016, the common equity estimation and attribution to the business segments are based on our pro forma fully phased-in regulatory capital, including supplementary leverage and stress losses (which results in more capital being attributed to the business segments), whereas prior periods were attributed based on transitional regulatory capital provisions. also, beginning in 2016, the amount of capital allocated to the business segments will be set at the beginning of each year and will remain fixed throughout the year until the next annual reset. differences between available and required capital will be attributed to parent company equity during the year. periods prior to 2016 have not been recast under this new methodology. the required capital framework is expected to evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment, for example, to incorporate stress testing or enhancements in modeling techniques. we will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate. average common equity attribution $ in billions 2016 2015 1 2014 1 institutional securities $ 43.2 $ 34.6 $ 32.2 wealth management 15.3 11.2 11.2 investment management 2.8 2.2 2.9 parent company 7.6 18.9 19.0 total 1 $ 68.9 $ 66.9 $ 65.3 1. amounts are calculated on a monthly basis. average common equity is a non-gaap financial measure that we consider to be a useful measure for us, investors and analysts to assess capital adequacy. regulatory developments resolution and recovery planning pursuant to the dodd-frank act, we are required to submit to the federal reserve and the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) an annual resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the u.s. bankruptcy code in the event of our material financial distress or failure. our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2015 resolution plan, is an spoe strategy. on september 30, 2016, we submitted a status report to the federal reserve and the fdic in respect of certain shortcomings identified in our 2015 resolution plan. pursuant to the status report, we indicated that the parent company will amend and restate its support agreement with its material subsidiaries that is designed to ensure that such subsidiaries have sufficient capital and liquidity as and when needed throughout a resolution scenario. under the amended and restated support agreement, upon the occurrence of a resolution scenario, the parent company will be obligated to contribute or loan on a subordinated basis all of its material assets, other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company and certain intercompany receivables, to provide capital and liquidity, as applicable, to our material subsidiaries. the obligations of the parent company under the amended and restated support agreement will be secured on a senior basis by the assets of the parent company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company). as a result, claims of our material subsidiaries against the assets of the parent company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the parent company) will be effectively senior to unsecured obligations of the parent company. our next full resolution plan submission will be on july 1, 2017. if the federal reserve and the fdic were to jointly determine that our 2017 resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution, and if we were unable to address any deficiencies identified by the regulators, we or any of our subsidiaries may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or, after a two-year period, we may be required to divest assets or operations. in september 2016, the occ issued final guidelines that establish enforceable standards for recovery planning by national banks and certain other institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, calculated on a rolling four-quarter average basis, including msbna. the guidelines were effective on january 1, 2017, and msbna must be in compliance by january 1, 2018. in may 2016, the federal reserve proposed a rule that would impose contractual requirements on certain qualified financial contracts ( covered qfcs ) to which u.s. g-sibs, december 2016 form 10-k 72 table of contents management discussion and analysis including us, and their subsidiaries are parties. in august 2016, the occ proposed a rule that would subject national banks that are subsidiaries of u.s. g-sibs, including our u.s. bank subsidiaries, as well as certain other institutions (collectively with u.s. g-sibs and their other subsidiaries, covered entities ), to substantively identical requirements. under the proposals, covered qfcs must expressly provide that transfer restrictions and default rights against a covered entity are limited to the same extent as provided under the federal deposit insurance act and title ii of the dodd-frank act and their implementing regulations. in addition, covered qfcs may not permit the exercise of cross-default rights against a covered entity based on an affiliate entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings. if adopted as proposed, the requirements would take effect at the start of the first calendar quarter that begins at least one year after the final rules are issued. we continue to evaluate the potential impact of the proposals, which are subject to public comment and further rulemaking procedures. for more information about resolution and recovery planning requirements and our activities in these areas, see business supervision and regulation financial holding company resolution and recovery planning in part i, item 1. legacy covered funds under the volcker rule the volcker rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain proprietary trading activities, as defined in the volcker rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. the volcker rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with covered funds, with a number of exemptions and exclusions. banking entities were required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the volcker rule by july 21, 2015, subject to certain extensions. the federal reserve has extended the conformance period until july 21, 2017 for investments in, and relationships with, covered funds that were in place before december 31, 2013, referred to as legacy covered funds. the volcker rule also permits the federal reserve to provide an additional transition period of up to five years for banking entities to conform investments in certain legacy covered funds that are also illiquid funds. on december 12, 2016, the federal reserve issued a policy statement with information about how banking entities may seek this further statutory extension. additionally, the federal reserve stated that it expects the illiquid funds of banking entities to generally qualify for extensions, although they may not be granted if the banking entity has not demonstrated meaningful progress to conform or divest its illiquid funds, or has a deficient compliance program under the volcker rule, or if the federal reserve has concerns about evasion. we submitted our application for illiquid funds extension in january 2017, covering essentially all of our approximately $1.9 billion of non-conforming investments in, and relationships with, legacy covered funds subject to the volcker rule. off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations off-balance sheet arrangements we enter into various off-balance sheet arrangements, including through unconsolidated special purpose entities ( spes ) and lending-related financial instruments ( e.g. , guarantees and commitments), primarily in connection with the institutional securities and investment management business segments. we utilize spes primarily in connection with securitization activities. for information on our securitization activities, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in contractual obligations in the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations. 73 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents management discussion and analysis at december 31, 2016 payments due in: $ in millions 2017 2018-2019 2020-2021 thereafter total long-term borrowings 1 $ 26,127 $ 41,689 $ 33,915 $ 63,044 $ 164,775 other secured financings 1 3,377 5,551 270 206 9,404 contractual interest payments 2 4,654 7,263 4,954 13,794 30,665 time deposits 3 1,210 43 8 50 1,311 operating leases premises 4 649 1,176 949 2,958 5,732 purchase obligations 5 438 485 167 208 1,298 total 6 $ 36,455 $ 56,207 $ 40,263 $ 80,260 $ 213,185 1. for further information on long-term borrowings and other secured financings, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management overview management believes effective risk management is vital to the success of our business activities. accordingly, we have established an enterprise risk management ( erm ) framework to integrate the diverse roles of risk management into a holistic enterprise structure and to facilitate the incorporation of risk assessment into decision-making processes across the firm. risk is an inherent part of our businesses and activities. we have policies and procedures in place to identify, measure, monitor, advise, challenge and control the principal risks involved in the activities of the institutional securities, wealth management and investment management business segments, as well as at the parent company level. the principal risks involved in our business activities include market (including non-trading interest rate risk), credit, operational, liquidity, model, compliance, strategic and reputational risk. strategic risk is integrated into our business planning, embedded in the evaluation of all principal risks and overseen by our board of directors (the board ). the cornerstone of our risk management philosophy is the pursuit of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk taking that protects our capital base and franchise. this philosophy is implemented through the erm framework. five key principles underlie this philosophy: integrity, comprehensiveness, independence, accountability and transparency. to help ensure the efficacy of risk management, which is an essential component of our reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and the appropriate escalation of risk matters. the fast-paced, complex and constantly evolving nature of global financial markets requires us to maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to ongoing review and enhancement. our risk appetite defines the types of risk that the firm is willing to accept in pursuit of our strategic objectives and business plan, taking into account the interest of clients and fiduciary duties to shareholders, as well as capital and other regulatory requirements. this risk appetite is embedded in our risk culture and linked to our short-term and long-term strategic, capital and financial plans, as well as compensation programs. this risk appetite and the related board-level risk limits and risk tolerance statements are reviewed and approved by the risk committee of the board ( brc ), and the board on, at least, an annual basis. risk governance structure risk management at the firm requires independent firm-level oversight, accountability of our business divisions, and effective communication of risk matters across the firm, to senior management and ultimately to the board. our risk governance structure is composed of the board; the brc, the audit committee of the board ( bac ), and the operations and technology committee of the board ( botc ); the firm risk committee ( frc ); the functional risk and control committees; senior management oversight (including the chief executive officer, chief risk officer, chief financial officer, chief legal officer and chief compliance officer); the internal audit department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the business segments and operating legal entities. the erm framework, composed of independent but complementary entities, facilitates efficient and comprehensive supervision of our risk exposures and processes. 75 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents risk disclosures 1. committees include securities risk committee, wealth management risk committee and investment management risk committee 2. committees include capital commitment committee, global large loan committee, equity underwriting committee, leveraged finance underwriting committee, municipal capital commitment committee morgan stanley board of directors. the board has oversight for the erm framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that our risks are managed in a sound manner. the board has authorized the committees within the erm framework to help facilitate our risk oversight responsibilities. as set forth in our corporate governance policies, the board also oversees, and receives reports on, our financial performance, strategy and business plans as well as our practices and procedures relating to culture, values and conduct. risk committee of the board. the brc is composed of non-management directors. the brc oversees our global erm framework; oversees the major risk exposures of the firm, including market, credit, operational, model, liquidity, and reputational risk, against established risk measurement methodologies and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; oversees our risk appetite statement, including risk limits and tolerances; reviews capital, liquidity and funding strategy and related guidelines and policies; reviews the contingency funding plan and internal capital adequacy assessment process and capital plan; oversees our significant risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies; oversees the performance of the chief risk officer; reviews reports from our strategic transactions committee, comprehensive capital analysis and review ( ccar ) committee, and resolution and recovery planning ( rrp ) committee; reviews significant reputational risk, franchise risk, new product risk, emerging risks and regulatory matters; and reviews results of internal audit reviews and assessment of the risk management, liquidity and capital functions. the brc reports to the entire board on a regular basis, coordinates with other board committees with respect to oversight of risk management and risk assessment guidelines and the entire board attends quarterly meetings with the brc. audit committee of the board. the bac is composed of independent directors. the bac oversees the integrity of our consolidated financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and system of internal controls; oversees risk management and risk assessment guidelines in coordination with the board, brc and botc and reviews the major legal and compliance risk exposures of the firm and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; selects, determines the fees, evaluates and when appropriate, replaces the independent auditor; oversees the qualifications, independence and performance of our independent auditor, and pre-approves audit and permitted non-audit services; oversees the performance of our global audit director; and after review, recommends to the board the acceptance and inclusion of the annual audited consolidated financial statements in the firm annual report on form 10-k. the bac reports to the entire board on a regular basis. operations and technology committee of the board. the botc is composed of non-management directors. the botc oversees our operations and technology strategy, including trends that may affect such strategy; reviews operations and technology budget and significant expenditures and investments in support of such strategy; reviews operations and technology metrics; oversees risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding operations and technology risk; reviews the major operations and technology december 2016 form 10-k 76 table of contents risk disclosures risk exposures of the firm, including information security and cybersecurity risks, and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; and oversees our business continuity planning. the botc reports to the entire board on a regular basis. firm risk committee. the board has also authorized the frc, a management committee appointed and chaired by the chief executive officer, which includes the most senior officers of the firm, including the chief risk officer, chief legal officer and chief financial officer, to oversee the global erm framework. the frc responsibilities include oversight of our risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, operational, model, liquidity, legal, compliance and reputational risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. the frc also establishes and communicates risk tolerance, including aggregate firm limits and tolerance, as appropriate. the governance process review subcommittee of the frc oversees governance and process issues on behalf of the frc. the frc reports to the entire board, the bac, the botc and the brc through the chief risk officer, chief financial officer and chief legal officer. functional risk and control committees. functional risk and control committees comprising the erm framework, including the firm credit risk committee, the operational risk oversight committee, the asset/liability management committee, the global compliance committee, the technology governance committee and the firm franchise committee, facilitate efficient and comprehensive supervision of our risk exposures and processes. the strategic transactions committee reviews large strategic transactions and principal investments for the firm; the ccar committee and oversee our comprehensive capital analysis and review and dodd-frank act stress testing; our rrp committee oversees our title i resolution plan and recovery plan; the global legal entity oversight and governance committee monitors the governance framework that operates over our consolidated legal entity population; the enterprise regulatory oversight committee oversees significant regulatory and supervisory requirements and assessments; various commitment and underwriting committees are responsible for reviewing capital, lending and underwriting commitments on behalf of us; and the culture, values and conduct committee oversees firm-wide standards and initiatives relating to culture, values and conduct, including training and enhancements to performance and compensation processes. in addition, each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies, procedures, controls and systems that are consistent with the risk framework established by the frc; and reviews, on a periodic basis, our aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of our risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls. chief risk officer. the chief risk officer, who is independent of business units, reports to the brc and the chief executive officer. the chief risk officer oversees compliance with our risk limits; approves exceptions to our risk limits; independently reviews material market, credit, liquidity, model and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the board, the brc and the bac, as appropriate. the chief risk officer also coordinates with the chief financial officer regarding capital and liquidity management and works with the compensation, management development and succession committee of the board to help ensure that the structure and design of incentive compensation arrangements do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risk taking. independent risk management functions. the independent risk management functions (market risk, credit risk, operational risk, model risk and liquidity risk management departments) are independent of our business units. these functions assist senior management and the frc in monitoring and controlling our risk through a number of control processes. each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. further discussion about the responsibilities of the risk management functions may be found below under market risk, credit risk, operational risk, model risk, and liquidity risk. support and control groups. our support and control groups include the legal and compliance division, the finance division, the operations division, the technology and data division, the human resources department, strategy and execution, and corporate services. our support and control groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business segment market, credit and operational risk profile; liquidity risks; model risks; sales practices; reputational, legal enforceability, compliance and regulatory risk; and technological risks. participation by the senior officers of the firm and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review. internal audit department. the internal audit department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the bac. the internal audit department provides an independent assessment of our control environment and risk 77 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents risk disclosures management processes using a risk-based audit coverage model and audit execution methodology developed from professional auditing standards. the internal audit department also reviews and tests our compliance with internal guidelines set for risk management and risk monitoring, as well as external rules and regulations governing the industry. it effects these responsibilities through periodic reviews (with specified minimum frequency) of our processes, activities, products or information systems; targeted reviews of specific controls and activities; pre-implementation or initiative reviews of new or significantly changed processes, activities, products or information systems; and special investigations required as a result of internal factors or regulatory requests. in addition to regular reports to the bac, the global audit director also periodically reports to the brc and botc on risk-related controls. culture, values and conduct of employees. employees of the firm are accountable for conducting themselves in accordance with our core values: putting clients first, doing the right thing, leading with exceptional ideas and giving back . we are committed to building on our strong culture anchored in these core values, and supported by our governance framework, board and management oversight, effective risk management and controls, training and development programs, policies, procedures, and defined roles and responsibilities, including the role of the culture, values and conduct committee. our code of conduct (the code ) establishes standards for employee conduct that further reinforce the firm commitment to integrity and ethical conduct. every new hire and every employee annually must certify to their understanding of and adherence to the code. the employee annual review process includes evaluation of adherence to the code and our core values. the global incentive compensation discretion policy sets forth standards for managers when making annual compensation decisions and specifically provides that managers must consider whether their employees effectively managed and/or supervised risk control practices during the performance year. we also have several mutually reinforcing processes to identify employee conduct that may have an impact on employment status, current-year compensation and/or prior-year compensation. our clawback and cancellation provisions, which permit recovery of deferred incentive compensation, apply to a broad scope of employee conduct, including any act or omission that constitutes a breach of obligation to the firm (including failure to comply with internal compliance, ethics or risk management standards, and failure or refusal to perform duties satisfactorily, including supervisory and management duties), causes a restatement of our consolidated financial results, constitutes a violation of our global risk management principles, policies and standards, or causes a loss of revenues associated with a position on which the employee was paid and the employee operated outside of internal control policies. risk management process the following is a discussion of our risk management policies and procedures for our principal risks (capital and liquidity risk is discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources in item 7). the discussion focuses on our securities activities (primarily our institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. we believe that these activities generate a substantial portion of our principal risks. this discussion and the estimated amounts of our risk exposure generated by our statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. however, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which we operate and certain other factors described below. risk limits framework risk limits and quantitative metrics provide the basis for monitoring risk-taking activity and avoiding outsized risk-taking. our risk-taking capacity is sized through the firm capital planning process where losses are estimated under the firm bank holding company severely adverse stress testing scenario. we also maintain a comprehensive suite of risk limits and quantitative metrics to support and implement our risk appetite statement. our risk limits support linkages between the overall risk appetite, which is reviewed by the board, and more granular risk-taking decisions and activities. risk limits, once established, are reviewed and updated on at least an annual basis, with more frequent updates as necessary. board-level risk limits address the most important firm-wide aggregations of risk, including, but not limited to, stressed market, credit and liquidity risks. additional risk limits approved by the frc address more specific types of risk and are bound by the higher-level board risk limits. market risk market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. generally, we incur market risk as a result of trading, investing and client facilitation activities, principally within the institutional securities business segment where the substantial majority of our value-at-risk ( var ) for market risk exposures is generated. in addition, we incur trading-related market risk within the wealth management business segment. the investment management business segment primarily incurs non-trading market risk from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity december 2016 form 10-k 78 table of contents risk disclosures vehicles. market risk includes non-trading interest rate risk. non-trading interest rate risk in the banking book (amounts classified for regulatory capital purposes under the banking book regime) refers to the exposure that a change in interest rates will result in prospective earnings changes for assets and liabilities in the banking book. sound market risk management is an integral part of our culture. the various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. the control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. the market risk department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. to execute these responsibilities, the market risk department monitors our risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains our var and scenario analysis systems. these limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. market risk is also monitored through various measures: by use of statistics (including var and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, and scenario analyses conducted by the market risk department in collaboration with the business units. the material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the market risk department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the frc, the brc and the board. the chief risk officer, among other things, monitors market risk through the market risk department, which reports to the chief risk officer and is independent of the business units, and has close interactions with senior management and the risk management control groups in the business units. the chief risk officer is a member of the frc, chaired by the chief executive officer, which includes the most senior officers of the firm, and regularly reports on market risk matters to this committee, as well as to the brc and the board. sales and trading and related activities primary market risk exposures and market risk management. during 2016, we had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which we conduct our trading activities. we are exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of our market-making activities and other trading in interest rate-sensitive financial instruments ( e.g ., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). the activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which we are active include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities). we are exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities. we are exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-u.s. dollar-denominated financial instruments. we are exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities in commodity products related primarily to electricity, natural gas, oil and precious metals. commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. these changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production and transportation; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities. we manage our trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. these strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g ., futures, forwards, swaps and options). hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. we manage the market risk associated with our trading activities on a firm-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. we manage and monitor our market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that we believe is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects our aggregate risk tolerance as established by our senior management. 79 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents risk disclosures aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the firm across all divisions worldwide. additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the market risk department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by our senior management. var. we use the statistical technique known as var as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of our trading portfolios. the market risk department calculates and distributes daily var-based risk measures to various levels of management. var methodology, assumptions and limitations. we estimate var using a model based on volatility-adjusted historical simulation for general market risk factors and monte carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans and related derivatives. the model constructs a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on the following: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. our var model uses four years of historical data with a volatility adjustment to reflect current market conditions. var for risk management purposes ( management var ) is computed at a 95% level of confidence over a one-day time horizon, which is a useful indicator of possible trading losses resulting from adverse daily market moves. the 95%/one-day var corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day. our var model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to equity and commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates. the model also takes into account linear exposures to implied volatility risks for all asset classes and non-linear exposures to implied volatility risks for equity, commodity and foreign exchange referenced products. the var model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks ( e.g., corporate debt and related credit derivatives). we use var as one of a range of risk management tools. among their benefits, var models permit estimation of a portfolio aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks and portfolio assets. one key element of the var model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities. however, var has various limitations, which include, but are not limited to: use of historical changes in market risk factors, which may not be accurate predictors of future market conditions and may not fully incorporate the risk of extreme market events that are outsized relative to observed historical market behavior or reflect the historical distribution of results beyond the 95% confidence interval; and reporting of losses in a single day, which does not reflect the risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged in one day. a small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions is not included in var. the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies on approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different results from those produced using more precise measures. var is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. we are aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, use var as only one component in our risk management oversight process. this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis and control at the trading desk, division and firm levels. our var model evolves over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. we are committed to continuous review and enhancement of var methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. as part of our regular process improvements, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the var model ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. since the reported var statistics are estimates based on historical data, var should not be viewed as predictive of our future revenues or financial performance or of our ability to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that our actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the var amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days for a 95%/one-day var. var does not predict the magnitude of losses that, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the var amount. var statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the firms portfolios, modeling assumptions and methodologies. these differences can result in materially different var estimates across firms for similar portfolios. the impact of such differences varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated and the confidence level. as a result, var statistics are more useful when interpreted as indicators of trends in a firm risk profile rather than as an absolute measure of risk to be compared across firms. december 2016 form 10-k 80 table of contents risk disclosures we utilize the same var model for risk management purposes, as well as for regulatory capital calculations. our var model has been approved by our regulators for use in regulatory capital calculations. the portfolio of positions used for management var differs from that used for regulatory capital requirements ( regulatory var ), as management var contains certain positions that are excluded from regulatory var. examples include counterparty credit valuation adjustment ( cva ) and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and associated hedges. the following table presents the management var for the trading portfolio, on a period-end, annual average, and annual high and low basis. to further enhance the transparency of the traded market risk, the credit portfolio var has been disclosed as a separate category from the primary risk categories. the credit portfolio includes counterparty cva and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and associated hedges. trading risks 95%/one-day management var 95%/one-day var for 2016 $ in millions period end average high low interest rate and credit spread $ 24 $ 29 $ 39 $ 22 equity price 12 16 43 11 foreign exchange rate 7 8 12 4 commodity price 8 10 13 7 less: diversification benefit 1, 2 (21 ) (27 ) n/a n/a primary risk categories $ 30 $ 36 $ 61 $ 29 credit portfolio 15 19 24 12 less: diversification benefit 1, 2 (11 ) (12 ) n/a n/a total management var $ 34 $ 43 $ 68 $ 34 95%/one-day var for 2015 $ in millions period end average high low interest rate and credit spread $ 28 $ 34 $ 42 $ 27 equity price 17 19 40 14 foreign exchange rate 6 11 20 6 commodity price 10 16 21 10 less: diversification benefit 1, 2 (23 ) (33 ) n/a n/a primary risk categories $ 38 $ 47 $ 57 $ 38 credit portfolio 12 13 20 10 less: diversification benefit 1, 2 (9 ) (10 ) n/a n/a total management var $ 41 $ 50 $ 61 $ 41 n/a not applicable 1. diversification benefit equals the difference between the total management var and the sum of the component vars. this benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component. 2. the high and low var values for the total management var and each of the component vars might have occurred on different days during the year, and therefore, the diversification benefit is not an applicable measure. the average total management var for 2016 was $43 million compared with $50 million for 2015. the average management var for the primary risk categories for 2016 was $36 million compared with $47 million in 2015. the noted decreases were driven by an overall reduction in risk exposures across the sales and trading businesses. distribution of var statistics and net revenues for 2016. one method of evaluating the reasonableness of our var model as a measure of our potential volatility of net revenues is to compare var with actual trading revenues. assuming no intraday trading, for a 95%/one-day var, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed var during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed var more than 21 times in a year, the adequacy of the var model would be questioned. we evaluate the reasonableness of our var model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results for the firm, as well as individual business units. for days where losses exceed the var statistic, we examine the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the var model accuracy relative to realized trading results. the distribution of var statistics and net revenues is presented in the following histograms for the total trading populations. total trading. as shown in the 95%/one-day management var table on the preceding page, the average 95%/one-day total management var for 2016 was $43 million. the following histogram presents the distribution of the daily 95%/one-day total management var for 2016, which was in a range between $30 million and $60 million for approximately 99% of trading days during the year. the following histogram shows the distribution for 2016 of daily net trading revenues, including profits and losses from interest rate and credit spread, equity price, foreign exchange rate, commodity price, and credit portfolio positions and intraday trading activities, for our trading businesses. daily net trading revenues also include intraday trading activities but exclude certain items not captured in the var model, such as fees, commissions and net interest income. daily net trading revenues 81 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents risk disclosures differ from the definition of revenues required for regulatory var backtesting, which further excludes intraday trading. during 2016, we experienced net trading losses on 18 days, of which no day was in excess of the 95%/one-day total management var. non-trading risks we believe that sensitivity analysis is an appropriate representation of our non-trading risks. reflected below is this analysis covering substantially all of the non-trading risk in our portfolio. counterparty exposure related to our own credit spread. the credit spread risk sensitivity of the counterparty exposure related to our own credit spread corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $6 million for each 1 basis point widening in our credit spread level at both december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015. funding liabilities. the credit spread risk sensitivity of our mark-to-market funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $17 million and $11 million for each 1 basis point widening in our credit spread level at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, respectively. interest rate risk sensitivity. the following table presents an analysis of selected instantaneous upward and downward parallel interest rate shocks on net interest income over the next 12 months for our u.s. bank subsidiaries. these shocks are applied to our 12-month forecast for our u.s. bank subsidiaries, which incorporates market expectations of interest rates and our forecasted business activity, including our deposit deployment strategy and asset-liability management hedges. during the fourth quarter of 2016, we changed the criteria used to determine the pricing for our deposit liabilities to client cash balances from client assets under management. as a result of the change, the u.s. bank subsidiaries balance sheet is expected to have greater sensitivity to higher rates than in prior periods. u.s. bank subsidiaries net interest income sensitivity analysis $ in millions at december 31, 2016 at december 31, 2015 +200 basis points $ 550 $ (149) +100 basis points 262 (84) -100 basis points (655 ) (512) at december 31, 2016, the upward instantaneous interest rate shocks result in a positive impact to our u.s. bank subsidiaries projected net interest income over the following 12 months. we do not manage to any single rate scenario but rather manage net interest income in our u.s. bank subsidiaries to optimize across a range of possible outcomes. the sensitivity analysis assumes that we take no action in response to these scenarios, assumes there are no changes in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates, and includes subjective assumptions regarding customer and market re-pricing behavior and other factors. investments . we have exposure to public and private companies through direct investments, as well as through funds that invest in these assets. these investments are predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, a portion of which are for business facilitation purposes. the market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% decline in investment values and related impact on performance fees. investments sensitivity, including related performance fees 10% sensitivity $ in millions at december 31, 2016 at december 31, 2015 investments related to investment management activities $ 332 $ 371 other investments: mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities co., ltd. 158 142 other firm investments 130 194 equity market sensitivity. in the wealth management and investment management business segments, certain fee-based revenue streams are driven by the value of clients equity holdings. the overall level of revenues for these streams also depends on multiple additional factors that include, but are not limited to, the level and duration of the equity market decline, price volatility, the geographic and industry mix of client assets, the rate and magnitude of client investments and redemptions, and the impact of such market decline and price volatility on client behavior. therefore, overall revenues do not correlate completely with changes in the equity markets. december 2016 form 10-k 82 table of contents risk disclosures credit risk credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. we primarily incur credit risk exposure to institutions and individuals through our institutional securities and wealth management business segments. we may incur credit risk in our institutional securities business segment through a variety of activities, including, but not limited to, the following: extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral to clearinghouses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; placing funds on deposit at other financial institutions to support our clearing and settlement obligations; and investing or trading in securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. we incur credit risk in our wealth management business segment, primarily through lending to individuals and entities, including, but not limited to, the following: margin loans collateralized by securities; securities-based lending and other forms of secured loans, including tailored lending, to high net worth clients; and single-family residential mortgage loans in conforming, non-conforming or home equity lines of credit ( heloc ) form, primarily to existing wealth management clients. monitoring and control in order to help protect us from losses, the credit risk management department establishes firm-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure at the transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. the credit risk management department approves extensions of credit, evaluates the creditworthiness of the counterparties and borrowers on a regular basis, and ensures that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. the evaluation of counterparties and borrowers includes an assessment of the probability that an obligor will default on its financial obligations and any losses that may occur when an obligor defaults. in addition, credit risk exposure is actively managed by credit professionals and committees within the credit risk management department and through various risk committees, whose membership includes individuals from the credit risk management department. a comprehensive and global credit limits framework is utilized to manage credit risk levels across the firm. the credit limits framework is calibrated within our risk tolerance and includes single-name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and product type. the credit risk management department ensures transparency of material credit risks, compliance with established limits and escalation of risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. the credit risk management department also works closely with the market risk department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures and to perform stress tests to identify, analyze and control credit risk concentrations arising in the lending and trading activities. the stress tests shock market factors ( e.g. , interest rates, commodity prices, credit spreads), risk parameters (e.g. , default probabilities and loss given default), recovery rates and expected losses in order to assess the impact of stresses on exposures, profit and loss, and our capital position. stress and scenario tests are conducted in accordance with our established policies and procedures. credit evaluation the evaluation of corporate and institutional counterparties and borrowers includes assigning obligor credit ratings, which reflect an assessment of an obligor probability of default and loss given default. credit evaluations typically involve the assessment of financial statements; leverage; liquidity; capital strength; asset composition and quality; market capitalization; access to capital markets; adequacy of collateral, if applicable; and in the case of certain loans, cash flow projections and debt service requirements. the credit risk management department also evaluates strategy, market position, industry dynamics, management and other factors that could affect the obligor risk profile. additionally, the credit risk management department evaluates the relative position of our exposure in the borrower capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as other structural elements of the particular transaction. the evaluation of consumer borrowers is tailored to the specific type of lending. margin and securities-based loans are evaluated based on factors that include, but are not limited to, the amount of the loan, the degree of leverage and the quality, diversification, price volatility and liquidity of the collateral. the underwriting of residential real estate loans includes, but is not limited to, review of the obligor income, 83 december 2016 form 10-k table of contents risk disclosures net worth, liquidity, collateral, loan-to-value ratio and credit bureau information. subsequent credit monitoring for individual loans is performed at the portfolio level, and collateral values are monitored on an ongoing basis. credit risk metrics assigned to our borrowers during the evaluation process are incorporated into the credit risk management department maintenance of the allowance for loan losses for the loans held for the investment portfolio. such allowance serves as a reserve for probable inherent losses, as well as probable losses related to loans identified for impairment. for more information on the allowance for loan losses, see notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in